《 废弃场景 》Chaichana Luetrakun布面丙烯180 x 180 厘米今年年度报告封面的设计灵感源自画作《废弃场景》，该作品荣获 2019 年大华银行年度绘画大赛（泰国）资深画家组最佳
画作奖。Chaichana Luetrakun 先生通过作品揭示因科技更新换代所产生的电子废弃物及其对于环境的长期影响。它提醒我
们要充分考虑自身行为所带来的后果以及应为后代留下什么样的遗产。大华银行诚信、进取、齐心、担当的价值观指导着我们的一言一行和所做决定。我们坚信必须平衡企业增长与责任两者关系，
才能保持可持续发展。遵循这样的方针，让我们能够兼顾各方的当前和长远利益。我们希望通过在亚洲推广对艺术的欣赏和认知，帮助更多公众发挥想象力，畅想和创造更多惠及大众的文化生活。大华银
行年度绘画大赛至 2019 年已举办了 38 届，是我行在四个东南亚国家促进视觉艺术发展的旗舰项目。Wastescape
Chaichana LuetrakunAcrylic on canvas180 x 180 cmWastescape, the winning artwork for the 2019 UOB Painting of the Year (Thailand), Established Artist Category, is the design 
inspiration for this Annual Report. Mr Chaichana’s artwork is a commentary on how innovation can result in scrap metal and 
its lasting impact on the environment. It reminds us to consider carefully the consequences of our actions and the legacy we 
want to leave for future generations.At UOB, our values of Honour, Enterprise, Unity and Commitment guide the decisions we make and actions we take. 
We believe that for growth to be sustained, it must be balanced with responsibility. This approach enables us to meet 
the immediate and long-term interests of our stakeholders.By encouraging the appreciation of art in the region, we hope more minds will be open to imagining new realities and 
to creating new paradigms for the good of all. The UOB Painting of the Year competition, in its 38   year in 2019, is the 
Bank's flagship art programme held across four Southeast Asian countries.th1大华银行（中国）简介
About United Overseas Bank (China)母行简介
About United Overseas Bank Limited大华银行（中国）有限公司（大华银行（中国））是亚洲银行业翘楚——
大华银行有限公司（大华银行）的在华全资子公司，拥有中国本地
法人银行资格。大华银行（中国）于 2007 年 12 月 18 日注册成立，
总部设在上海。自 1984 年，大华银行在北京开设了第一间办事处以来，大华银行（中
国）目前已在中国的主要城市拥有十余家分支机构。我们不断加强在各方面的实力。2006 年，大华银行成为上海第一家
获批为客户处理资本账目的东南亚银行。2008 年，大华银行（中国）
获得了人民币零售业务牌照；2011 年获得了上海黄金交易所授予的
在华黄金交易会员资格；2012 年 7 月，大华银行（中国）获得合格
境内机构投资者（QDII）资格，12 月，又获得了银行间黄金询价资格，
成为首批获得此项资格的四家外资银行之一。2013 年，大华银行（中国）成为第一批在中国获得本地基金代销执
照的外资银行之一。2014 年，大华银行（中国）设立上海自贸试验
区支行，并成为首批获得银行间外汇市场人民币对新元直接做市商
资格及银行间黄金询价交易尝试做市商资质的外资银行。2015 年，
大华银行（中国）获得了黄金进出口的行政许可。2018 年，大华银
行（中国）获批成为首批人民币对泰铢直接交易做市商，并成功发
行了其三年期的金融债。这是银行间市场首单由东南亚银行发行的
境内“债券通”金融债。2019 年，大华银行 （中国）成为上海期货
交易所第三家外资银行成员并成为“上海银”的集中定价会员。这
些都进一步扩展了大华银行在中国的业务。2015 年大华银行集团向大华银行（中国）增加资本金 25 亿元人民币，
总注册资本金达到 55 亿元人民币。目前，大华银行（中国）的综合
财务实力获惠誉 A+ 评级，中诚信 AAA 级，评级展望均为稳定。作为一家严谨负责的金融服务机构，我们致力为广大利益相关方和
营运所在社区带来改变生活的正能量。我们不仅全力以赴协助客户
合理管理个人财富和帮助企业取得业务增长，同时也坚定不移地在
艺术、儿童和教育三大领域推动社会发展。欲了解更多信息，请登陆大华银行（中国）的官方网站：
www.UOBChina.com.cn 或关注大华银行（中国）官方微信
（账号名称：大华银行中国）。2United  Overseas  Bank  (China)  Limited  (UOB  (China))  is  a 
wholly-owned subsidiary of United Overseas Bank Limited 
(UOB), a leading bank in Asia. UOB (China) is headquartered 
in Shanghai and was incorporated in the People’s Republic of 
China on 18 December 2007.From our first representative office in Beijing in 1984, we have 
grown our network to 17 branches and sub-branches in major 
Chinese cities.We  have  also  been  building  on  our  strengths.  In  2006, 
UOB was the first bank from Southeast Asia authorised to 
settle  capital  accounts  in  Shanghai.  We  received  a  retail 
RMB  licence  and  Shanghai  Gold  Exchange  (SGE)  trading 
membership in 2008 and 2011 respectively. In 2012, we were 
awarded a Qualified Domestic Institutional Investors licence, 
and were one of four foreign banks to participate in bullion 
trading on the SGE interbank platform.UOB (China) is one of the first foreign banks to obtain a local 
mutual fund licence in China in 2013. The following year, we 
established a sub-branch in the Shanghai Free Trade Zone, 
and  obtained  a  trial  market  maker  licence  for  interbank 
gold bilateral transactions and a market maker licence for 
direct trading between RMB and the Singapore dollar in the 
interbank foreign exchange market. We also obtained the 
gold import and export licence in 2015. In 2018, UOB (China) 
became  one  the  first  market  makers  do  execute  direct 
trading between the RMB and the Thai Baht. The Bank also 
successfully priced its three-year onshore RMB financial bond 
through the China interbank market and the Bond Connect 
scheme  (BCS),  which  is  the  first  onshore  financial  bond 
issued by a Southeast Asian bank through the BCS. In 2019, 
UOB (China) became the first Southeast Asia-headquartered 
bank to be a member of the Shanghai Futures Exchange and 
the first foreign bank to be a Fixing Member for the Shanghai 
Silver Benchmark Price. These achievements have enabled us 
to widen our product and service offering to our customers 
operating in China.In 2015, UOB Group increased the registered capital of UOB 
(China) by RMB2.5 billion to RMB5.5 billion.UOB  (China)  is  rated  ‘A+’  with  a  stable  outlook  by  Fitch 
Ratings and ‘AAA’ with a stable outlook by China Chengxin 
International Credit rating.We  believe  in  being  a  responsible  financial  services 
provider and we are committed to making a difference in 
the  lives  of  our  stakeholders  and  in  the  communities  in 
which we operate. Just as we are dedicated to helping our 
customers manage their finances wisely and to grow their 
businesses, UOB (China) is steadfast in our support of social 
development, particularly in the areas of art, children and 
education.For more information about UOB (China), please visit www.
UOBChina.com.cn or follow the UOB (China)’s public account 
on WeChat.我们的机构大华银行有限公司（“大华银行”）是亚洲主要银行，拥有超过
500 间分行及办事处的环球业务网，分布在亚太、欧洲与北美的 19
个国家和地区。在亚洲，大华银行通过新加坡总行和在中国、印度
尼西亚、马来西亚、泰国及越南的附属银行以及各地分行和办事处，
开展广泛的金融业务。1935 年，全球还处于经济大萧条后的不确定期，大华银行开业为新
加坡的商业社群提供银行服务。从此大华银行通过自身发展和一系列的战略收购行动不断壮大。如
今大华银行获评为世界顶尖银行之一：穆迪给予“Aa1”评级，标普
全球评级和惠誉分别给予“AA-”评级。在过去的超过 80 年里，一代代大华银行职员秉承开拓进取的精神，
以创造长远价值为目标，勇于担当，对所有利益相关方始终诚挚如一，
信守相伴。在大华银行，我们矢志做严谨负责的金融服务机构，致力为营运所
在的社区创造改变生活的正能量。正如我们全力以赴协助客户明智
管理他们的财务和取得业务成长，大华银行也坚定不移地支持社会
发展，并将推动艺术、帮助儿童成长及促进教育作为重点。我们的业务大华银行通过集团零售银行业务、集团机构银行服务及环球金融三
个核心业务部门，在全球提供全面的金融服务：个人消费者银行服
务、私人银行服务、商业银行服务、交易银行服务、投资银行服务
与外汇资金服务。通过各个附属公司，我们也提供资产管理、私募
基金管理及保险服务。Who We Are
United Overseas Bank Limited (UOB) is a leading bank in Asia 
with a global network of more than 500 branches and offices 
in  19  countries  and  territories  in  Asia  Pacific,  Europe  and 
North America. In Asia, we operate through our head office 
in Singapore and banking subsidiaries in China, Indonesia, 
Malaysia,  Thailand  and  Vietnam,  as  well  as  branches  and 
offices across the region.In  1935,  amid  the  economic  uncertainties  following  the 
Great Depression, UOB opened its doors to provide banking 
services for the merchant community in Singapore.Since then, UOB has grown organically and through a series 
of  strategic  acquisitions.  Today,  UOB  is  rated  among  the 
world’s top banks: ‘Aa1’ by Moody’s Investors Service and ‘AA-’ 
by both S&P Global Ratings and Fitch Ratings.Over  more  than  eight  decades,  generations  of  UOB 
employees have carried through the entrepreneurial spirit, 
the focus on long-term value creation and an unwavering 
commitment to doing what is right for our stakeholders.At UOB, we believe in being a responsible financial services 
provider and we are committed to making a difference in the 
communities in which we operate. Just as we are dedicated 
to helping our customers manage their finances wisely and 
grow their businesses, we are steadfast in our support of 
social development, particularly in the areas of art, children 
and education.What We Do
UOB  provides  a  wide  range  of  financial  services  globally 
through our three core business segments – Group Retail, 
Group Wholesale Banking and Global Markets. Our offering 
includes  consumer  banking,  private  banking,  commercial 
banking,  transaction  banking,  investment  banking  and 
treasury services. Through our subsidiaries, we also provide 
asset  management,  private  equity  fund  management  and 
insurance services.3我们的营运所在
Where We Operate>500 branches分行
及办事处亚太、欧洲及北美
in Asia Pacific, Europe 
and North Americaand offices中国内地（大陆）
Mainland China 23缅甸 Myanmar 2加拿大
Canada 3印度
India 2泰国Thailand 156
马来西亚 Malaysia 48新加坡Singapore 72印度尼西亚
Indonesia 183英国United Kingdom 1法国France 1美国
USA 3日本 Japan 2
韩国 South Korea 1
中国香港 Hong Kong 4
中国台湾  Taiwan 2菲律宾 Philippines 1越南 Vietnam 2文莱 Brunei 2澳大利亚
Australia 345主要财务信息
Financial Highlights董事长致辞
Chairman’s Statement20192018Increase
(Decrease)经营成果Operating result人民币千元 RMB'000营业收入合计Total operating income营业费用Total operating expenses资产减值损失Impairment charges税前利润资产负债资产总计财务指标Profit before taxBalance sheetTotal assetsFinancial indicators净资产利润率Return on equity资产利润率成本收入比Return on average total assetsExpenses/income ratio手续费及佣金净收入比总收入Net fee and commission income/total operating 
income存贷比（人民币）Loan-to-Deposit ratio (RMB)杠杆率不良贷款率拨备覆盖率贷款拨备率Leverage ratioNon-performing loan ratioNon-performing loan coverageProvision-to-loan ratio资本充足率指标Capital adequacy ratio核心一级资本充足率Core Tier 1 CAR一级资本充足率Tier 1 CAR资本充足率Total CAR1,360,5641,083,036141,314136,7291,229,4701,009,47553,211168,992人民币千元 RMB'00071,856,28874,206,681%1.80.278.612.688.17.70.6348.52.213.513.516.5%2.20.281.110.685.87.40.7288.52.113.113.114.0%10.77.3165.6(19.1)%(3.2)%(0.4)-(2.5)2.02.30.3(0.1)60.00.10.40.42.56我们身处一个正在发生巨变的时代。市场的不确定性和波动性，参
差不齐的经济发展水平和不同的政见正在改变国际关系的格局。同
时科技进步重塑了商业的发展形态和人们的生活方式。当前，抗击
新冠肺炎疫情业已成为全球各国的要务，疫情给日常生活、企业业务、
金融市场和经济发展都造成了一定的冲击。虽然变化带来很多动荡，但如果我们清晰了解自身目的，坚持战略
根基不动摇，并坚定不移地实现战略目标，也可从中取得转机。然
而拨开迷雾找准航向，需要经验、洞察力和应变力。所幸，作为一
家植根亚洲 80 余年的企业，大华银行历经了战争、金融危机和疫病
等重重考验，从中积累了宝贵的经验。在时代的激流中，我们始终屹立不倒。这是因为我们对于客户、员
工和所在社区，一直秉持高度的责任感，并致力成为他们值得长期
信赖的金融合作伙伴和“好管家”。我们时刻提醒自己不可只顾眼前利益，而不考虑其后果。正如今年
年报封面作品《废弃场景》所描绘的因图一时之快而导致的不良
影响。而这与大华银行一贯的价值理念相左。作为一家富于承继和
开创精神又勇于担当的企业，兼顾并支持各利益相关方对我们来说
至关重要。目光长远并坚守对各方的长期承诺，令我们能历经考验，
并从中汲取力量，为长期可持续发展做好准备。Ours is an era that is marked by immense change. Uncertainty 
and volatility shape markets, diverse and divergent economic 
and political beliefs challenge international relations, while 
advances  in  technology  propel  how  businesses  are  run 
and lives led. At the moment, the whole world is focused 
on grappling with the contagion of COVID-19. The virus is 
altering the course of life, business, markets and economies 
as we know it today.As  unsettling  as  change  can  be,  change  can  also  bring 
about  positive  outcomes  if  we  know  our  purpose,  focus 
on the fundamentals and persevere towards attaining our 
goals.  Navigating  well  through  choppy  seas  also  requires 
experience, discernment and agility. UOB, with more than 
eight  decades  of  presence  in  Asia,  has  been  through  and 
taken  learnings  from  past  storms,  be  they  wars,  financial 
crises or epidemics.Storms will pass. We stay the course. This is because we take 
seriously our duty of care to our customers, our colleagues 
and  our  communities,  as  we  strive  to  be  their  trusted 
financial partner and steward for the long term.We are mindful of the unintended consequences of taking 
the short-term view. The painting on the cover of this year’s 
Annual Report, Wastescape, illustrates the impact of myopic 
thinking and immediate gratification. This is not for UOB. 
Thinking ahead on behalf and in support of our stakeholders 
is  core  to  us  given  our  entrepreneurial  roots  and  the 
ownership mentality rooted in our origins. Our long-term 
approach and commitment enable us to weather the storms, 
to emerge stronger each time and to be better equipped to 
grow sustainably.7董事长致辞
Chairman’s Statement推动战略可持续发展2019 年，大华银行迎来了在华发展三十五周年。我们看到中国正以
前所未有的力度和速度加大金融市场的开放，同时国家也推出了多
个区域发展计划以推动经济的高质量增长。作为重要的国家战略，“一
带一路”倡议进一步深化了中国与东南亚各国在投资、贸易和基础
设施方面的合作往来。这些都为大华银行及我行客户带来了巨大的
商机。凭借大华银行在亚洲长期的业务积累和广泛区域网络，以及扎根本
地多年对市场的深入理解，我们随时准备帮助客户把握这些商机，
助力企业实现跨境发展，为正在崛起的富裕金融消费者提供其所需
的金融解决方案。我们将通过实施几大方向的战略，实现这一目标，这些战略方向包括：●    继续依托集团业务网络、有行业特色的解决方案和跨境业务咨 
       询能力，帮助客户把握区域商机；●    凭借我们对客户的深入理解、专业能力和合作伙伴生态系统，
       为客户提供最佳的产品和服务，全面提升他们的客户体验；●    坚持对科技和人才的长期投入；以及●    确保监管合规和强健的风险管理。帮助客户把握区域商机在东南亚，大华银行多年来通过战略并购和业务的有机增长，建立
了最广泛的业务网络。在中国，我行通过战略扩张，逐步深化在华
业务布局。2019 年，大华银行在粤港澳大湾区的第七家分支机构中
山分行正式开业，充分利用中山东承西接的区位优势，为当地发达
的制造业、电子信息业、能源石化和物流行业服务。同时中山分行
与其他湾区内分支机构联动，帮助更多中外企业把握粤港澳大湾区
和 21 世纪海上丝绸之路的业务机遇。由于我行紧跟大湾区发展的新
格局，2019 年商业银行部南区客户在客户规模上继续保持双位数增
长。我行的业务团队和外国直接投资咨询服务团队利用大华银行在亚洲
的一体化网络，在企业开拓新市场的时候，为其提供本地市场洞察，
业务落地支持和定制化的金融解决方案。自 2011 以来，大华银行已
成功帮助近 2,600 家企业在亚洲拓展业务，其中中国企业超过 500 家。thDriving strategic and sustainable growth 
2019 marks UOB’s 35  anniversary in China. During the years, 
we have seen China taking unprecedented steps to liberalise 
its financial sector with multiple development plans to create 
more growth drivers for the economy. The Belt and Road 
Initiative, as one of the country’s most important initiatives, 
is continuing to deepen the collaboration between China 
and  Southeast  Asian  countries  on  trade,  investment  and 
infrastructure projects, presenting tremendous opportunities 
for both our customers and us.With our established Asian heritage and franchise, coupled 
with the Group’s longstanding presence in and understanding 
of China, UOB (China) is well positioned. We connect our 
corporate  clients  to  regional  opportunities  and  provide 
financial solutions to our retail customers as their needs 
evolve with rising affluence.We fulfill our purpose by pursuing a strategy based on the 
following pillars:•    Deepening our regional connectivity through our network,sector solutions and cross-border advisory capabilities;•    Offering the complete customer experience with best-in-
class products and services enabled by our in-depth local 
knowledge and expertise and ecosystem partnerships;•    Investing in people and technology for the long term; and•    Ensuring regulatory compliance and robust risk management.Deepening our regional connectivity  
In ASEAN, UOB has built the most extensive network among 
our peers through a series of strategically-timed acquisitions 
and  organic  growth  over  the  past  decades.  In  China,  we 
have  also  been  growing  organically  by  strengthening  our 
network. In the Greater Bay Area (GBA), we established our 
seventh branch in Zhongshan, Guangdong, a transportation 
hub set to support the ASEAN-GBA trade flows arising from 
the  manufacturing,  information  technology  and  logistic 
sectors. In riding on the development of the GBA, in 2019, we 
saw double-digit growth in the number of our Commercial 
Banking clients in South China.Our bankers and Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) Advisory 
team harness the strengths of our integrated franchise and 
provide local insights, market entry support and customised 
banking  solutions  to  help  businesses  expand  into  new 
markets. Since 2011, we have helped close to 2,600 clients, 
including 500 Chinese companies, in their expansion across 
Asia.为了协助客户更好地驾驭多元复杂的东南亚投资环境，我行与上海
浦东发展银行联合主办了“领航丝路 联动东盟”论坛。论坛聚焦“一
带一路”在亚洲的最新投资格局，为企业深入分析重点市场和产业
前景。同时，我行再次携一系列以跨境为特色的金融解决方案亮相
第二届中国国际进口博览会，帮助与会企业了解东南亚投资机遇和
挑战。为助力中国企业的国际化发展，大华银行还与新加坡交易所和中国
国际商会共同签署了合作备忘录。在合作备忘录框架下，中国国际
商会逾十八万家会员企业，可享受大华银行专业的金融服务和在东
盟一体化的业务网络。全面提升客户体验我行始终以客户需求为中心，深入了解他们的挑战所在，并提供全
面的金融方案以解决其业务痛点。2019 年，我们推出了不可撤销付款承诺 (IPU) 供应商融资服务。该服
务旨在帮助客户供应链上的企业，特别是广大中小型企业，拓宽融
资渠道，降低融资成本。借助这一服务，我行客户能够以更灵活的
方式与其供应商结算，优化集团现金流，在为其上游企业解决融资
困难的同时，加强了自身与供应商之间的战略合作关系。为了满足企业多样化的交易和避险需求，我行继续为客户提供东南
亚货币“一站式”服务以及国内主要贵金属及商品交易所的交易方案。
凭借多个交易业务资质和出色交易能力，我行成为上海黄金交易所
上海银唯一外资银行定价成员，且在上海黄金交易所的全年交易量
稳居外资行之首。通过合作伙伴生态系统，我们为客户提供更多样且优质的服务。
2019 年，我们正式和上海燃气有限公司签订合作协议，为上海市超
过六百万个家庭提供线上线下一体化的创新综合金融解决方案。我
行还同中国最大的共享空间品牌优客工场合作签订合作备忘录，携
手为初创企业提供共享办公及一站式金融服务。To assist our clients in navigating the complexities of the 
diverse  landscape  in  Southeast  Asia,  we  held  the  ASEAN 
Connect Seminar with the Shanghai Pudong Development 
Bank to discuss the investment outlook and sector-specific 
trends benefitting from strengthened connectivity across 
Asia.  We  also  participated  in  the  China  International 
Import Expo for the second consecutive year to share our 
insights into the challenges and investment opportunities in 
Southeast Asia.To facilitate Chinese enterprises’ internationalisation efforts, 
we also signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with 
the China Chamber of International Commerce (CCOIC) and 
Singapore Exchange Limited in 2019. Our collaboration will 
open up access to UOB’s banking expertise and integrated 
ASEAN network for more than 180,000 Chinese enterprises 
under the CCOIC.Offering the complete customer experience 
With our customers’ needs always at the centre of what we 
do, we are committed to deepening our understanding of 
their challenges and to addressing their pain points with our 
comprehensive solutions.For  our  corporate  clients,  we  launched  the  Irrevocable 
Payment  Undertaking  supply  chain  financing  solution. 
It  was  designed  to  help  our  clients’  suppliers,  which  are 
typically  small- and medium-sized enterprises, overcome 
their challenges in accessing quality financing. Through the 
solution, we can help our clients strengthen their supplier 
relationships  as  their  suppliers  benefit  from  more  stable 
cash flows, thus lowering their financing costs and reducing 
business risks.To  meet  our  clients’  diverse  risk  hedging  and  trading 
requirements,  we  continued  to  offer  them  one-stop 
solutions for Southeast Asian currencies, as well as bullion 
and commodity solutions for the major exchanges in China. 
Backed by our trading licences and capabilities, we were the 
first and only foreign bank to become a Fixing Member of the 
Shanghai Gold Exchange (SGE)’s Shanghai Silver Benchmark 
Price Trading. In 2019, we achieved the highest trading volume 
among the foreign banks on the SGE.Our partner ecosystems are an extension of our capabilities 
to  serve  our  customers  better.  In  2019,  we  started  our 
collaboration with Shanghai Gas (Group) Co. Ltd to provide 
its more than six million household customers with access 
to retail financial solutions. We also signed an MOU with 
UCommune, China’s largest co-working space provider, to 
offer financial and workspace solutions jointly to help start-
up companies run their business cost-effectively.89董事长致辞
Chairman’s Statement坚持对科技和人才的长期投入2019 年，我行继续致力于投入软硬件建设，以提升人才实力和科技
水平。通过集团所建立的一体化标准网络平台，我行客户可以不分国界地
享受无缝科技体验。一体化的网络也令我们在推出解决方案时，保
证其引入市场速度和覆盖客户规模，同时有效地管理风险。我行还
上线了贵金属交易平台并升级了现有银行系统，以更有效地服务于
我行客户。吸引合适人才，帮助员工把握职业未来是大华银行（中国）重要发
展战略之一。因此，我行致力打造良好的企业文化以帮助我们吸引
和留下最优质的人才。去年，我们完善了绩效管理体系，并建立了
高潜质员工人才发展项目，为其提供职业加速通道。同时，我们坚
信建立有全球战略眼光，面向未来的复合型人才梯队，可以令我们
业务走得更远。我们也希望员工能够走在科技前沿，以应对客户不
断变化的需求。因此，2020 年，大华银行（中国）将引进集团在
2019 年推出的 Better U 的全面学习发展计划。这一计划将帮助我行
员工培养解决复杂问题的能力，掌握数字创新、以人为本的流程设
计和数据技能。确保监管合规和强健的风险管理2019 年，我行坚持贯彻监管合规这一工作重点，并二度荣获中国人
民银行上海分行所授予的上海市支付清算系统运行维护工作先进单
位称号。同时我们持续优化本行的监管报表系统，将国家外汇管理
局的报表功能整合至银行的监管报送统一管理系统平台。我们整体的大局观和可持续发展眼光，让我行能够继续塑造强有力
的风险意识和文化，保证发展的质量和组织的强劲。以负责任的态度实现业务增长2019 年，我行营业收入同比增长了 10.7%，达到人民币 13.6 亿元，
主要得益于交易及投资类收益的大幅增长。Investing in people and technology for the long term
In 2019, we continued investing in the right capabilities and 
infrastructure for the long term.As part of UOB Group’s integrated network, we are backed 
by  a  standardised  platform  which  gives  our  customers  a 
seamless experience within and across borders. The Group’s 
integrated network enables us to achieve scale and speed to 
market in rolling out solutions locally while ensuring robust 
risk management. Our continued investments in information 
technology in 2019 also included our new Precious Metals 
Trading  System  Platform  and  the  upgrading  of  existed 
banking systems to serve our customers more efficiently.Attracting the right talent and preparing our people to be 
future-ready are part of our business strategy. At UOB (China), 
we foster a work culture which enables us to attract and to 
retain the best talents. Last year, we enhanced the robustness 
of our performance management process and established 
accelerated career development programmes for our top 
talents. We believe in growing our own timber and creating 
a cohort of future industry leaders with a regional mindset 
to  carry  our  business  deeper  and  further.  We  want  our 
people to ride the technology wave and to remain relevant 
for our customers always. As such, in 2020, we will roll out 
in China our Better U programme, a Group-wide learning 
and development programme to equip our colleagues with 
knowledge  and  skills  in  complex  problem-solving,  digital 
awareness, human-centred design and data storytelling.Ensuring regulatory compliance and robust risk management 
Regulatory compliance has always been our priority. In 2019, 
for  the  second  consecutive  year,  we  were  recognised  as 
a leading institution by the People’s Bank of China (PBoC) 
Shanghai  Branch  for  our  best  practice  in  implementing 
PBoC’s online payment and interbank clearing systems. We 
also migrated and integrated the State Authority of Foreign 
Exchange reporting into our Unified Platform for Regulatory 
Reporting system.Given our holistic approach and focus on sustainable growth, 
we will continue to maintain our strong risk culture and to 
uphold the strength and quality of our franchise.Achieving responsible growth in 2019
In 2019, we achieved operating income of RMB1,360.6 million, 
an increase of 10.7 per cent from last year, mainly driven by 
the improvement in trading and investment income.受益于贵金属产品及外汇产品的良好表现，我行交易及投资类收益
从上年度的人民币 1.2 亿元增至人民币 3.5 亿元。同时由于净息差下
降，净利息收入同比下降 14.8% 至人民币 8.3 亿元。由于我行持续加大对人才和产品的投入，以更好地服务客户，因此
员工成本以及业务相关费用均有所增长，营业支出同比上升了 7.2%
至人民币 10.7 亿元。这也反映了我行坚持在华长期投资和发展的承
诺。因此，我行 2019 年税后净利润为人民币 1.2 亿元，较 2018 年同
比下降 17.4%。我行的资产质量保持稳定，不良贷款率从上年末的 0.7% 小幅下降至
2019 年末的 0.6%。我们密切监控资产组合，并对我行的资产质量和
拨备充足性有着充分的信心。2019 年贷款规模上升 6.8% 至人民币 351 亿元，同时我行资金来源进
一步夯实，存款增长了 6.0% 至人民币 395 亿元，发行的债券和同业
存单余额为人民币 27 亿元。截止 2019 年 12 月 31 日，我行的核心一级资本充足率和总资本充足
率分别为 13.5% 和 16.5%，远高于最低监管要求。目前，大华银行（中国）的综合财务实力获惠誉 A+ 及展望稳定评级，
以及中诚信 AAA 及展望稳定的评级。坚持回馈社区取得业务发展的同时，我行也致力于履行企业社会责任，回馈业务
所在社区。2019 年，大华银行（中国）联同我行客户及合作伙伴，通过多种形
式为社区捐赠 60 余万元。在我行所专注的艺术、儿童和教育三大公
益活动中，我们员工贡献了近 5,300 个小时的公益时间。凭借在公益
方面的出色表现，我行在 2019 公益之申评选中荣膺“十佳公益伙伴
企业”的荣誉称号。我行也携手首届艺术与设计创新未来教育博览会（FutureLab），共
同推动跨文化交流和艺术分享。通过与该类艺术机构和交流盛事合
作，我们希望帮助更多人，尤其是年轻一代探索艺术世界。Trading and investment income rose to RMB352.6 million 
from RMB117.9 million a year ago, driven by improved gains 
from  precious  metals  and  foreign  exchange  products. 
Meanwhile, our net interest income decreased by 14.8 per 
cent from a year ago to RMB834.1 million, due to narrowing 
interest margins.Operating expenses grew by 7.2 per cent to RMB1,069 million, 
largely  driven  by  higher  staff  costs  and  business-related 
expenses as we invested in talent and product capabilities 
to  improve  our  customer  experience.  This  reflects  our 
continued commitment to our investment and growth for 
the long term in China. As a result, we registered net profit 
after tax of RMB124.4 million, decreased by 17.4 per cent from 
2018.Our asset quality remained stable. The non-performing loan 
ratio declined slightly to 0.6 per cent from 0.7 per cent a year 
ago. We monitor our portfolio vigilantly and are confident 
of the resilience of our asset quality and adequacy of our 
provisions.Loans grew by 6.8 per cent to RMB35.1 billion in 2019. We also 
continued to improve our funding base by issuing RMB2.7 
billion in securities and increasing deposits by 6 per cent to 
RMB39.5 billion.As at 31 December 2019, our Common Equity Tier 1 and Total 
Capital  Adequacy  Ratios  stood  at  13.5  per  cent  and  16.5 
per cent respectively, well above the regulatory minimum 
requirements.We  were  rated  A+  by  Fitch  Ratings  and  AAA  by  China 
Chengxin International Credit Rating with a stable outlook.Connecting with our communities 
Alongside  strong  financial  results,  we  are  committed  to 
being a responsible member of the communities in which we 
operate.In 2019, we collaborated with our customers and business 
partners  to  contribute  more  than  RMB600,000  to  the 
community.  Our  people  devoted  close  to  5,300  hours  in 
activities aligned to our corporate social responsibility focus 
areas of art, children and education. Our heartfelt efforts 
have  been  recognised  through  accolades  such  as  Top  10 
Public  Welfare  Partner  Company  of  2019  Shanghai  Public 
Welfare Selection.We also expanded our community outreach efforts through 
our collaboration with the 2019 Art and Design Education: 
FutureLab,  an  international  exhibition  that  promotes  the 
cross-cultural exchange of ideas and expression among art 
institutions. Through such events, we helped to open minds, 
especially of the young, to the creative possibilities of art.1011实现稳健经营和业务增长的双重目标2020 年，对所有企业来说无疑是个转型之年。有哲人曾经说过：“世
界唯一不变的就是变化本身”，而当前这一变化正在加速。我们已看到宏观经济和地缘政治所带来各种的不确定性和跌宕起伏
的金融市场。在这种环境下，即便我们要随机应变帮助客户捕捉商机，
更需要谋定而后动，继续夯实我们的战略根基，坚定地与客户信守
相伴。我们需要保持强健的资产负债表，进而有效支持客户需求，从容应
对市场动荡。我们需要继续加大对软硬件及人才的长期投入，同时
推进团队的整合和科技系统的优化以提升效率和效益。我们要更深
入地参与到中国的金融市场之中，提升对核心行业的业务能力，深
化合作伙伴生态系统，以更好地为客户服务，实现业务的可持续增长。我行将继续秉持诚信、进取、齐心和担当的价值观，审慎经营，兼
顾机遇和责任，平衡稳健与增长。惟其如此，我们才可经受住经济
周期和艰难时期的考验，源源不断地为利益相关方创造可持续的价
值。致谢在此，我要感谢大华银行（中国）董事会和所有同事。感谢大家在
2019 年坚守工作、践行承诺、勇于担当，一如既往地为客户和公司
发展提供有力的支持。同时，我也要向已卸任的董事李振荣先生致谢。李振荣先生为大华
银行服务近 40 年，并在大华银行（中国）成立伊始，就加入我行董
事会。他对大华银行（中国）发展所给予的支持与贡献不可估量。最后，我要感谢我行所有的客户对大华银行（中国）长期以来所给
予的信任和支持。黄一宗大华银行（中国）有限公司董事长
2020 年 3 月Balancing growth with stability
2020  is  proving  to  be  a  year  of  immense  change  and 
transformation for all. While there is a saying that the only 
constant is change, the new reality is that the only constant 
is accelerated change.We  are  already  seeing  increased  macroeconomic  and 
geopolitical uncertainties and heightened market volatility. 
Such  an  environment  only  reinforces  the  need  for  our 
measured stance. UOB (China) must be resolute in deepening 
our customer relationships and focusing on the fundamentals, 
even as we stay nimble in seizing opportunities.We maintain our balance sheet strength so we can continue 
to support our customers and to weather the volatilities. We 
continue to invest in our people and infrastructure for the 
long term and to ensure increased productivity and efficiency 
through  integrated  teams  and    optimised  technology 
systems. We will continue to deepen relationships as China’s 
financial market continues to liberalise, to sharpen our sector 
expertise  and  to  forge  more  partner  ecosystems  for  the 
benefit of our customers and to ensure sustainable business 
growth.We will continue to operate with prudence and discipline, 
guided  by  our  values  of  Honour,  Enterprise,  Unity  and 
Commitment,  to  balance  growth  with  stability  and 
opportunity with responsibility. This will ensure we continue 
to generate sustainable value for our stakeholders through 
trying times and business cycles.Acknowledgements
Throughout 2019, the team at UOB (China) – from the Board 
to  all  our  colleagues  –  remained  steadfast  in  support  of 
our  customers  and  each  other.  I  thank  them  all  for  their 
commitment, perseverance and enterprising spirit.In 2019, we said farewell to Mr Francis Lee who had been 
with  UOB  Group  for  almost  four  decades  and  took  the 
role of  UOB  (China)’s Board Director  since incorporation. 
His contribution and support to UOB (China)’s growth was 
immense.Finally, to our valued and loyal customers, thank you for your 
continued confidence in and support of UOB (China).Wee Ee CheongChairman
March 2020法定名称
大华银行 ( 中国 ) 有限公司
法定代表人
黄一宗
注册地址
上海市浦东新区银城路 116 号、128 号大华银行大厦三层、五层 501 室（实际
四层）、十三层（实际十二层）、十五层（实际十三层）、十六层（实际十四层）、
十七层（实际十五层）、十八层（实际十六层）、十九层（实际十七层）、
二十层（实际十八层）
邮政编码：200120
电话：(86) (21) 6061 8888
传真：(86) (21) 6886 0908
SWIFT：UOVBCNSH
网址：UOBChina.com.cn
公司成立日期
2007 年 12 月 18 日
登记机关
上海市工商行政管理局
企业法人统一社会信用代码
913100006694147236
注册资本
人民币 550,000 万元
股东 ( 发起人 )
大华银行有限公司
公司类型
有限责任公司 ( 外国法人独资 )
监事
黄祖耀
詹道存 ( 副监事 )
董事会
黄一宗 ( 董事长 )
符懋赞 ( 行长兼首席执行官 )
叶杨诗明
刘二飞 
吴玉华
执行委员会
黄一宗 ( 主席 )
符懋赞 
叶杨诗明
提名及薪酬委员会
刘二飞（主席）
黄一宗
叶杨诗明
吴玉华
审计委员会
刘二飞（主席）
叶杨诗明
吴玉华 
关联交易控制委员会
吴玉华（主席）
叶杨诗明
刘二飞
董事会风险管理委员会
叶杨诗明 ( 主席 ) 
刘二飞 
吴玉华
审计师
安永华明会计师事务所（特殊普通合伙）上海分所公司信息
Corporate InformationRegistered Name
United Overseas Bank (China) Limited
Legal Representative
Wee Ee Cheong
Registered Office
Floor 3, Room 501 of Floor 5 (Actual Floor 4), Floor 13 (Actual Floor 12), Floor 15 
(Actual Floor 13), Floor 16 (Actual Floor 14), Floor 17 (Actual Floor 15), Floor 18 
(Actual Floor 16), Floor 19 (Actual Floor 17) and Floor 20 (Actual Floor 18), No. 116 
and No. 128, Yin Cheng Road, Pudong New Area
Shanghai 200120 
Tel: (86) (21) 6061 8888
Fax: (86) (21) 6886 0908
SWIFT: UOVBCNSH
Website: UOBChina.com.cn
Date of Incorporation
18 December 2007
Registration Authority
Shanghai Administration of Industry and Commerce
Unified Social Credit Code
913100006694147236
Paid Up Share Capital
RMB 5,500,000,000
Shareholder (Founder)
United Overseas Bank Limited
Type of Company
Limited Company (Wholly Foreign-owned)
Supervisors
Wee Cho Yaw
Cham Tao Soon (Deputy Supervisor) 
Board of Directors
Wee Ee Cheong (Chairman)
Peter Foo Moo Tan (President and CEO)
Christine Ip
Liu Erh Fei 
Wu Yu Hua
Executive Committee
Wee Ee Cheong (Chairman)
Peter Foo Moo Tan 
Christine Ip
Nominating and Remuneration Committee
Liu Erh Fei  (Chairman)
Wee Ee Cheong
Christine Ip
Wu Yu Hua
Audit Committee
Liu Erh Fei (Chairman) 
Christine Ip
Wu Yu Hua
Connected Transactions Control Committee
Wu Yu Hua (Chairman) 
Christine Ip
Liu Erh Fei
Board Risk Management Committee
Christine Ip (Chairman) 
Liu Erh Fei
Wu Yu Hua
Auditors
Ernst & Young Hua Ming (LLP) Shanghai Office1213监事
Supervisor黄祖耀Wee Cho Yaw监事Supervisor91 岁，自 2007 年 10 月 30 日起担任大华银
行（中国）的监事。黄博士是一位拥有 60 多年经验的杰出银行
家，他在银行、保险、房地产及酒店业都
拥有丰富经验。由于他的商业成就及对教
育事业、社区福利及商界的支持，他被授
予多个国家和地区的奖项和荣誉。黄博士是大华银行（泰国）的董事会主席
以及新加坡大华银行及大华银行（马来西
亚）的荣誉主席兼名誉顾问。黄博士现任新加坡上市公司大华保险、华
业集团、联合工业及虎豹企业的董事会主
席。他同时也是泛太平洋酒店集团、滨海
中心控股及黄氏基金的董事会主席。黄博士是中正中学的校友及董事会主席。
他曾任职于多家学校管理委员会及南洋大
学和新加坡国立大学理事会。他目前担任
南洋理工大学的名誉副校长。新加坡国立
大学和南洋理工大学都授予他荣誉文学博
士学位。Dr Wee, 91, was appointed as Supervisor 
of United Overseas Bank (China) on 30 
October 2007.A distinguished banker with more than 
60 years’ experience, Dr Wee is a veteran       
in the banking, insurance, real estate and 
hospitality industries. He was conferred 
numerous  awards  and  accolades  at 
the national and regional level for his 
business achievements and support of 
education, community welfare and the 
business community.Dr  Wee  is  the  Chairman  of  United 
Overseas Bank (Thai) Public Company 
and  the  Chairman  Emeritus  and 
Honorary Adviser of United Overseas 
Bank,  Singapore  and  also  of  United 
Overseas Bank (Malaysia).He is the current Chairman of United 
Overseas Insurance, UOL Group, United 
Industrial  Corporation  and  Haw  Par 
Corporation  all  of  which  are  public 
companies listed on the Singapore Stock 
Exchange. He also serves as Chairman of 
Pan Pacific Hotels Group, Marina Centre 
Holdings and Wee Foundation.Dr Wee is an alumni and Chairman of 
Chung Cheng High School. He has served 
on  numerous  school  management 
committees and the Councils of the 
Nanyang  University  and  National 
University  of  Singapore  (NUS).  He 
is  currently  a  Pro-Chancellor  of  the 
Nanyang Technological University (NTU). 
Both NUS and NTU have conferred on him 
their Honorary Doctor of Letters degree.黄博士的其他职务包括新加坡中华总商会、
新加坡宗乡会馆联合总会及新加坡福建会
馆的名誉会长。黄博士于 2001 年和 1990 年两度荣获新加
坡商业颁奖礼“年度杰出商人奖”。他于
2006 年荣获首届“瑞信—安永终身成就奖”。
2009 年，《亚洲银行家》授予其终身成就奖。
为了表彰黄博士在商界的杰出成就，2017
年他获颁“亚细安商业奖”的传承奖。此外，黄博士获新加坡总统颁发象征新加
坡最高荣耀的新加坡国庆“殊功勋章”（2011
年度），以表彰其对新加坡经济、教育和
社区发展的杰出贡献。His  other  commitments  include 
appointment as the Honorary President 
of  the  Singapore  Chinese  Chamber 
of  Commerce  &  Industry,  Singapore 
Federation of Chinese Clan Associations 
and Singapore Hokkien Huay Kuan.Dr Wee was named Businessman of the 
Year twice at the Singapore Business 
Awards in 2001 and 1990. He received 
the inaugural Credit Suisse-Ernst & Young 
Lifetime Achievement Award in 2006 and 
The Asian Banker’s Lifetime Achievement 
Award  in  2009.  In  recognition  of  his 
business achievements in the region, Dr 
Wee was conferred the Legacy Award for 
Singapore at the Asean Business Awards 
2017.Dr  Wee  received  the  Distinguished 
Service  Order,  Singapore’s  highest 
National Day Award for 2011 from the 
President of Singapore in recognition 
of  his  outstanding  contributions  to 
the  economic,  education,  social  and 
community  development  fields  in 
Singapore.1415副监事
Deputy Supervisor詹道存Cham Tao Soon副监事Deputy Supervisor80 岁，自 2017 年 1 月 1 日起担任大华银行
（中国）副监事之职。詹教授曾于 2008 年
至 2016 年期间担任本行独立及非执行董事。詹教授是新加坡 NSL、三盅两件集团及新
加坡铁路学院董事长。他还是 MFS  科技、
维信集团、大华银行及其附属公司远东银
行的前董事。作为新加坡教育领域的杰出人物，詹教授
是新加坡新跃社科大学的前名誉校长和托
管理事会主席，也是新加坡南洋理工大学
的创校校长。2003 年，詹教授获象征新加
坡最高荣耀的新加坡国庆“殊功勋章”，
以表彰其在教育领域的杰出贡献。作为一名经验丰富的专业工程师，詹教授
拥有马来西亚大学土木工程学学士荣誉学
位、伦敦大学数学理学学士荣誉学位和英
国剑桥大学流体力学博士学位。他也是新
加坡工程师协会、新加坡工程院、英国皇
家工程院、英国机械工程师学会的资深会
员，以及瑞典皇家工程科学院外籍院士。Prof Cham, 80, was appointed as the 
Deputy Supervisor of United Overseas 
Bank  (China)  with  effective  from  1 
January  2017.  Prof  Cham  was  a  non-
executive and independent director of 
the Bank from 2008 to 2016.Prof  Cham  is  the  Chairman  of  NSL, 
Soup  Restaurant  and  Singapore  Rail 
Academy.  He  is  a  former  director  of 
MFS Technology, WBL Corporation and 
United Overseas Bank, Singapore and 
its subsidiary, Far Eastern Bank.A  prominent  figure  in  the  Singapore 
education  scene,  Prof  Cham  is  the 
former  Chancellor  of  Singapore 
University  of  Social  Sciences  (SUSS) 
and Chairman of its Board of Trustees, 
and  was  the  founding  President  of 
Nanyang  Technological  University. 
For  his  outstanding  contributions 
to  education,  he  was  conferred 
the  Distinguished  Service  Order, 
Singapore’s  highest  National  Day 
Award, in 2003.An  engineer  by  training,  Prof  Cham 
holds a Bachelor of Engineering (Civil, 
Hons) from the University of Malaya, 
a Bachelor of Science in Mathematics 
(Hons) from the University of London 
and  a  Doctor  of  Philosophy  in  Fluid 
Mechanics  from  the  University  of 
Cambridge, UK. He is also a Fellow of 
the Institution of Engineers, Singapore, 
Academy  of  Engineering,  Singapore, 
Royal Academy of Engineering, UK and 
Institution  of  Mechanical  Engineers, 
UK  and  a  foreign  member  of  Royal 
Swedish  Academy  of  Engineering 
Sciences.1667 岁，2007 年 12 月 5 日受委任为大华银行
（中国）董事会董事长、非执行非独立董事，
同时也是本行执行委员会主席和提名及薪
酬委员会成员。黄先生是一位拥有 40 年经验的职业银行家，
他于 1979 年加入大华银行，并自 1990 年起
担任大华银行董事。目前担任新加坡大华
银行董事局副主席兼总裁。黄先生同时也是大华保险的董事与大华银
行（马来西亚）及大华银行（泰国）的董
事局副主席。他还兼任大华银行（印尼）
的监事长，并曾任远东银行的董事。黄先生积极参与促进行业及社区发展，是
新加坡银行公会、新加坡银行与金融学院
以及 Visa AP 资深客户理事会的成员。他亦
是新中教育基金会理事会和印尼 - 新加坡商
业理事会的成员，以及新加坡中华总商会
名誉理事。此前，他也曾担任新加坡建屋
发展局的副主席以及新加坡港务局、华业
集团及泛太平洋酒店集团的董事。黄先生热衷艺术事业，是南洋艺术学院的
赞助人，也是黄氏基金的董事。鉴于他对金融业的贡献，2013 年他荣获新
加坡政府颁发的“公共服务星章”。黄一宗先生拥有华盛顿特区美国大学理学
学士（工商管理）学位和文学硕士（应用
经济学）学位。Mr Wee, 67, was appointed as Director 
a n d   C h a i r m a n   o f   t h e   B a n k   o n   5 
December 2007. A non-executive and 
non-independent  director,  he  is  the 
Chairman of the Executive Committee 
and a member of the Nominating and 
Remuneration Committee.A career banker with 40 years’ experience 
in the UOB Group, Mr Wee joined United 
Overseas Bank, Singapore (UOB Singapore) 
in 1979 and has been a director of UOB 
Singapore since 1990. He is currently the 
Deputy Chairman and Chief Executive 
Officer of UOB Singapore.He also holds directorships in United 
Overseas Insurance, United Overseas 
Bank (Malaysia) (Deputy Chairman) and 
United  Overseas  Bank  (Thai)  Public 
Company (Deputy Chairman). He is the 
President  Commissioner  of  PT  Bank 
UOB Indonesia. He was also formerly a 
director of Far Eastern Bank.Active  in  industry  and  community 
development, Mr Wee serves as council 
member of The Association of Banks 
in Singapore, The Institute of Banking 
&  Finance  and  Visa  AP  Senior  Client 
Council.  He  is  also  a  member  of  the 
Board of Governors of the Singapore-
China Foundation, Indonesia-Singapore 
Business Council and Honorary Council 
Member  of  the  Singapore  Chinese 
Chamber  of  Commerce  &  Industry. 
He  was  previously  deputy  chairman 
of the Housing & Development Board 
and a director of the Port of Singapore 
Authority, UOL Group and Pan Pacific 
Hotels Group.A keen art enthusiast, Mr Wee is the 
Patron of the Nanyang Academy of Fine 
Arts. He is also a director of the Wee 
Foundation.In 2013, he was awarded the Singapore 
Public  Service  Star  by  the  Singapore 
Government for his contributions to 
the financial industry.Mr Wee holds a Bachelor of Science 
(Business Administration) and a Master 
of  Arts  (Applied  Economics)  from 
American University, Washington, DC.董事会
Board of Directors黄一宗Wee Ee Cheong董事长Chairman17董事会
Board of Directors符懋赞Peter FOO Moo Tan行长兼首席执行官President and Chief ExecutiveOffi cer (CEO)57 岁，于 2016 年 12 月 19 日出任大华银行（中
国）行长兼首席执行官一职，并于 2017 年
1 月 18 日受委任加入大华银行（中国）董
事会。作为执行非独立董事，他同时也是
大华银行（中国）执行委员会成员。符懋
赞先生亦是大华银行集团管理委员会成员。符 先 生 于 2011 年 加 入 大 华 银 行， 主 管 资
金和环球金融部海外分支机构业务，并于
2012 年开始担任大华银行（泰国）行长兼
首席执行官一职。符先生拥有 30 多年银行业从业经验。加入
大华银行之前，符先生在富通银行任职 11
年，期间出任多个管理职位，包括新加坡
分行首席执行官、亚太董事会成员、私人
银行新加坡董事总经理以及新加坡分行环
球金融部主管。此前，他的职业经历还包
括于 1988 至 2000 年间，先后在美国纽约化
学银行，美国银行以及奥地利银行担任管
理职务。符先生的职业生涯始于 1987 年，
作为管理培训生加入壳牌公司新加坡分公
司。符先生是现任大华银行集团旗下上海华
新置业有限公司主席，亚洲影响力投资基
金 公 司 (AIIF Capital Partners Limited) 董 事 和
United Asia Diversifier 基金 (United Asia Diversifier 
Program) 的董事。同时，他也是 CFA 协会资
本市场政策委员会的委员。也曾担任国际
金融市场协会 (ACI) 的行政委员会成员及东
亚区代表，CFA  新加坡董事会成员，新加
坡银行公会 (ABS) 委员，以及淡马锡控股旗
下新加坡交易所 (SGX) 上市公司新源基础设
施信托的独立董事。符先生拥有新加坡国立大学房地产管理学
士荣誉学位，也是一名特许金融分析师。Mr  Foo,  57,  was  appointed  President 
and CEO on 19 December 2016 and a 
director of the Board of UOB (China) on 
18 January 2017. An executive and non-
independent director, he is a member 
of UOB (China)’s Executive Committee. 
Mr Foo is also a member of UOB Group 
Management Committee.Mr Foo joined UOB in 2011 as the Head of 
the Group’s Treasury and Global Markets 
business for its overseas subsidiaries and 
branches. He also served as President and 
CEO of UOB (Thai) from 2012.Mr  Foo  has  more  than  30  years  of 
experience  in  banking  and  financial 
markets. Prior to joining UOB, he served 
for  11  years  at  Fortis  Bank,  S.A./N.V. 
Singapore,  where  he  assumed  many 
management roles including the CEO, 
Asia Pacific Management Board member, 
Managing Director of Private Banking and 
Head of Global Markets.Mr Foo's previous professional experience 
also includes holding various executive 
positions at Bank Austria Creditanstalt, 
Bank of America, and Chemical Bank 
between 1988 and 2000. Mr Foo embarked 
on the career as management associate 
with Shell Singapore in 1987.Mr Foo is the Chairman of UOB Property 
China Co.Ltd, the Director of United 
Asia Diversifier Program and AIIF Capital 
Partners Limited, the general partner 
of Asia Impact Investment Fund I L.P. 
He is also a Council Member of Capital 
Markets  Policy  Council  (CMPC)  of 
CFA Institute. Previously, he served as 
the  Executive  Committee  Member 
and Regional Representative of South 
East Asia of ACI-The Financial Markets 
Association,  Board  Member  of  CFA 
Singapore,  Council  Member  of  the 
Association of Banks in Singapore and 
an Independent Director of SGX listed/
Temasek’s  CitySpring  Infrastructure 
Investment Trust.Mr  Foo  holds  a  Bachelor  of  Estate 
Management (Hons) from the National 
University  of  Singapore  and  is  a 
Chartered Financial Analyst.叶杨诗明 
Christine Ip56 岁，2011 年 8 月 22 日受委任加入董事会。
作为非执行非独立董事，她同时也是本行董
事会风险管理委员会主席以及执行委员会、
审计委员会、提名及薪酬委员会和关联交易
控制委员会成员。叶杨女士于 2011 年加入大华银行，并于 2011
年 12 月被委任为大华银行香港分行首席执
行官，拥有 30 多年的个人银行及企业银行
从业经验。叶杨女士自 2016 年 7 月 1 日起
担任大华银行大中华地区首席执行官，负责
大中华业务发展策略。在加入大华银行之前，叶杨女士曾在中国香
港、美国、加拿大、新加坡和中国内地等地
区担任过产品开发、销售管理、客户管理和
风险管理等一系列高级管理层职位。叶杨女士同时也是新加坡数码通电讯集团有
限公司的独立非执行董事。鉴于其在金融行业中的卓越成就，叶杨女士
于 2008 年荣获亚洲零售商会议颁发的“全
球零售银行家领导奖”，并被中国杰出女企
业家联谊会评选为“2012 年中国百名杰出女
企业家”。叶杨女士拥有香港大学文学学士学位及香
港科技大学工商管理硕士学位。Mrs Ip, 56, was appointed to the Board 
on  22  August  2011.  A  non-executive 
and  non-independent  director,  she 
is  the  Chairman  of  the  Bank’s  Board 
Risk  Management  Committee  and 
a  member  of  the  Bank’s  Executive, 
Audit, Nominating and Remuneration, 
and Connected Transactions Control 
Committees.A  veteran  banker  with  more  than  30 
years’ experience in both consumer and 
corporate banking, Mrs Ip joined UOB 
in 2011 and was appointed as CEO of 
UOB Hong Kong Branch in December 
2011.  Mrs  Ip  was  appointed  as  CEO 
for  UOB  Greater  China  with  effect 
from 1 July 2016, and is responsible for 
developing UOB’s business in Greater 
China.Prior  to  joining  UOB,  Mrs  Ip  held 
several senior management positions 
in  product  and  sales  management, 
customer  segment  management  and 
risk  management  in  Hong  Kong,  the 
United States, Canada, Singapore and 
Mainland China.She is also an independent non-executive 
director of SmarTone Telecommunications 
Holdings Limited.In  recognition  of  her  achievements, 
M r s   I p   re ce i ve d   t h e   A s i a   R e t a i l 
Congress'  Best  International  Retail 
Banker award in 2008 and was named 
as  one  of  the  top  100  outstanding 
Chinese businesswomen in the Greater 
China  region  in  2012  by  the  China 
Outstanding  Female  Entrepreneurs 
Association.Mrs Ip holds a Bachelor of Arts from 
the  University  of  Hong  Kong  and  a 
Master of Business Administration from 
the Hong Kong University of Science 
and Technology.1819董事会
Board of Directors61 岁，2017 年 1 月 20 日受委任加入董事会。
作为独立及非执行董事，他同时也是本行审
计委员会和提名及薪酬委员会主席，以及关
联交易控制委员会和董事会风险管理委员
会成员。刘先生现任亚投资本的创始合伙人及首席
执行官，同时也担任信泰资本管理有限公司
董事。刘先生还在招商永隆银行担任独立董
事职务。刘先生曾担任美林中国区主席及美银美林中
国区总经理。他还曾在高盛集团、摩根士丹
利、所罗门美邦国际、东方汇理银行担任高
层。刘先生拥有布兰迪斯大学经济学和国际关系
学士学位，及哈佛商学院工商管理学硕士学
位。刘二飞 
Liu Erh FeiMr Liu, 61, was appointed to the Board 
on  20  January  2017.  A  non-executive 
and  independent  director,  he  is  the 
Chairman of the Audit and Nominating 
a n d   R e m u n e rat i o n   Co m m i t te e s , 
and  a  member  of  the  Connected 
Transactions  Control  and  Board  Risk 
Management Committees.Mr  Liu  is  currently  the  founding 
partner  and  Chief  Executive  Officer 
of  Asia  Investment  Capital.  He  also 
serves as a director of Cindat Capital 
Management  Limited,  as  well  as  an 
independent  director  for  CMB  Wing 
Lung Bank Limited.Mr  Liu  was  formerly  the  Chairman 
of  Merrill  Lynch  China  and  Country 
Executive of Bank of America Merrill 
Lynch.  He  had  previously  worked  as 
head  of  Asia  or  China  for  Goldman 
Sachs, Morgan Stanley, Smith Barney 
and Indosuez.He holds a Bachelor of Arts in Economics 
and  International  Relations  from 
Brandeis  University,  and  a  Master  of 
Business Administration from Harvard 
Business School.61 岁，2018 年 8 月 29 日受委任加入董事会。
作为独立及非执行董事，他同时也是本行关联
交易控制委员会主席，及审计委员会、提名及
薪酬委员会和董事会风险管理委员会成员。吴教授现任上海市张江科技园发展有限公司
常务总裁、上海长三角科技城发展有限公司执
行总裁和上海华夏文化经济促进会副会长。吴教授曾任上海宝钢集团驻欧洲办事机构首席
代表、计划财务部投资管理与咨询总监；曾任
德国西门子集团高层管理职务包括西门子（中
国）有限公司副总裁、西门子全球房地产集团
中国区投资副总裁和西门子世博项目中心总
裁；曾在法国阿尔斯通集团担任高层；还曾任
中国外商投资企业协会投资性公司工作委员会
第一届办公室主任。吴教授拥有中国高级经济师职称和德国济根大
学经济学硕士学位，并于 2019 年被上海外国
语大学聘任为客座教授。吴玉华Wu Yu HuaProf  Wu,  61,  was  appointed  to  the 
Board  on  29  August  2018.  A  non-
executive  and  independent  director, 
he is the Chairman of the Connected 
Transactions Control Committee, and 
a  member  of  the  Audit,  Nominating 
and  Remuneration  and  Board  Risk 
Management Committees.P ro f   W u   i s   c u r re n t l y   E xe c u t i ve 
President of Shanghai Zhangjiang High-
tech  Park  Development  Company 
L i m i te d ,   E xe c u t i ve   P re s i d e n t   o f 
Shanghai Yangtze River Delta Sci-tech 
City Development Company Limited, 
and Vice Chairman of Shanghai Huaxia 
Culture  and  Economy  Promotion 
Association.Prof  Wu  formerly  served  as  Chief 
Representative for Europe and Africa 
Regions  and  Director  of  Investment 
and Consulting Management, Planning 
a n d   F i n a n ce   fo r   C h i n a   B a os te e l 
Group.  He  took  senior  positions  in 
Siemens,  including  Vice  President  of 
Siemens  (China)  Company  Limited, 
Vice President of Siemens Real Estate 
Investment  China  and  President  of 
Siemens  Expo  Programme  Centre 
(SEPC).  He  also  held  senior  position 
in  ALSTOM.  Prof  Wu  assumed  the 
position  of  Director  of  Executive 
Committee  of  the  first  session  of 
Foreign Invested Companies (ECFIC) of 
China Association of Enterprises with 
Foreign Investment (CAEFI).Prof Wu is a Certified Senior Economist 
in China. He holds a Master’s Degree 
in  Economics  from  German  Siegen 
University,  and  was  appointed  as 
the  guest  professor  of  Shanghai 
International Studies University in 2019.2021大华银行（中国）组织架构图
UOB (China) Organisation Chart Y2019集团合规Group Compliance股东Shareholder监事Supervisors行长办公室
CEO Office外国直接投资咨询Foreign Direct Investment Advisory项目管理办公室Transformation Office董事会Board of Directors行长兼首席执行官
President and CEO审计委员会Audit Committee关联交易控制委员会
Connected TransactionsControl Committee提名及薪酬委员会Nominating and RemunerationCommittee董事会风险管理委员会Board Risk Management Committee执行委员会Executive Committee个人金融服务
Personal FinancialServices北区North Region东区East Region大湾区Greater Bay Area西区West Region财富管理Wealth Management零售业务销售Sales and Distribution抵押贷款Secured Lending Product业务管控及支持Business Controls andAdministration业务项目管理Business Project Management市场营销 , 数字业务部及战略Marketing, Digital Business and Strategy北京分行Beijing上海分行
Shanghai北京燕莎中心支行Lufthansa Centre天津分行Tianjin沈阳分行
Shenyang上海徐家汇支行Xujiahui上海自贸试验区支行
Shanghai Pilot FreeTrade Zone上海静安支行Jing'an杭州分行
Hangzhou苏州分行
Suzhou深圳分行
Shenzhen广州分行
Guangzhou中山分行
Zhongshan重庆分行
Chongqing成都分行
Chengdu昆明分行
Kunming海西经济区Western Taiwan-StraitsEconomic Zone厦门分行
Xiamen操作风险管理委员会Operational Risk ManagementCommittee消费者权益保护委员会Consumer Rights ProtectionCommittee风险与资本委员会
Risk and CapitalCommittee资产负债委员会
Asset and LiabilityCommittee批发银行（企业）
Wholesale Banking -Corporate企业银行Corporate Banking商业银行Commercial Banking交易银行Transaction Banking跨国企业银行Multinational Corporate结构性贸易及商品融资
Structured Trade and 
Commodity Finance金融机构Financial InstitutionsGroup环球金融Global Markets总行行业事业部
Industry Banker东区企业银行部
East region ofCorporation Banking北区企业银行部        
North region ofCorporation Banking南区企业银行部
Sourth region ofCorporation Banking西区企业银行部West region of CorporationBanking分行商业银行Commercial Banking(Branches)贸易融资销售及咨询Trade Sales andAdvisory信贷分析Credit Analysts现金管理销售及咨询Cash Management Sales andAdvisory客户实施及服务
Client Fulfillmentand Service业务财务Business Finance贸易融资产品管理Trade Product
Management批发银行部主管办公室Wholesale BankingHead Office私人财富管理部Private Wealth Management现金产品管理
Cash Product 
Management负债产品管理
Liability ProductManagement产品行销Product Sales Specialists业务计划、数据分析和风险管理Business Management, DataAnalyticsand Credit Assurance企业财富管理Corporate WealthManagement环球业务拓展
China GlobalBusiness Development银行同业Bank非银行金融机构
Non-Bank FinancialInstitutions房地产基金
Property Fund投资组合与流动性管理
Portfolio and LiquidityManagement市场交易Market Making环球市场产品结构Global Markets Structure环球市场销售Global Markets Sales业务管理Business Management合规Compliance财务及企业服务Finance and CorporateServices企业银行信贷
Corporate Credit商业银行信贷Commercial Credit个人信贷Retail Credit科技及营运Technology and Operations(T&O)人力资源Human Resources (HR)风险管理Risk Management法律与秘书Legal and Secretariat渠道及数字化Channels and Digitalisation品牌兼策略通讯与客户权益部Brand, Strategic Communications andCustomer Advocacy内部审计Internal Audit财务
Finance企业服务Corporate Real EstateServices企业银行信贷
Corporate Credit信贷特管Special Asset 
Management个人信贷催收Credit Management个人信贷审批
Credit Approval反洗钱 / 反恐怖融资及制裁Anti-Money Laundering / CounterTerrorism Financing批发银行合规Wholesale Banking Compliance /Global Markets Compliance零售银行合规Retail Banking ComplianceAdvisory综合合规Generals Compliance分行合规Local Compliance零售银行业务营运
Retail Operations批发银行业务营运
Wholesale Operations科技与营运保障Technology and OperationsAssurance信息科技服务Business Technology Services共享设施服务Shared Infrastructure Services科技与营运
行政与财务
T&O AdminSupport and Finance科技及营运服务管理Business T&O Management信息安全Information Security法律
Legal秘书Secretariat渠道战略及管理Channels Strategy andManagement渠道运营管理部Process Management 
and Assurance Office常规审计General Audit理财事业部Wealth Governance资讯科技审计
Technology Audit人才与组织发展Talent and Organisation Development信贷风险管理Credit Risk Management绩效与薪酬Rewards人力资源服务HR Services人力资源业务伙伴HR Business Management公司人力资源
Corporate HR分行人力资源管理Branch HR Management资产负债风险管理Balance Sheet Risk Management市场风险管理及监控Market RiskManagement and Product Control操作风险管理Operational Risk Management欺诈风险管理Integrated Fraud Management2223管理层报告
2019 in Review
零售银行尽管行业竞争和市场震荡加剧 , 大华银行（中国）始终致力于推动
零售银行业务革新，以满足客户不断变化的需求。2019 全年，我行零售业务收入增长接近 30%。凭借我行出色的财富
管理产品，财富管理收入增长超过 50%。提供全方位的综合金融解决方案
2019 年我们除了优化实体网点外，也持续革新数字化渠道，突破线
上线下的限制，为客户提供无缝的全渠道服务体验。此外，我行大力推动移动支付业务的发展。为方便境外用户境内消费，
我行成为首批支持海外手机号开通微信支付的外资银行。境外人士
于本行营业网点完成开户后，即可以海外电话绑定微信支付，享受
移动支付带来的便利。
 
同时我们也发挥优势，将创新的金融服务带广大市民的日常生活中。
2019 年 9 月，我们和上海燃气有限公司正式签订合作协议备忘录，
为上海市超过六百万个家庭提供线上线下一体化的创新综合金融解
决方案，满足个人客户在理财规划、子女教育、及海外资产配置等
领域的不同需求。针对高端女性推出专属服务
为满足高端女性不断提升的理财及品质生活需求，我们在中国推出
了「尊享理财 · 晶璨」。这是外资银行首个面向高端女性客户打造
的个人财富管理服务，致力为她们提供多项高端礼遇、专享活动和
定制理财方案，为其建立高端圈层，提高生活品质，实现女性更健康，
更自信的生活状态。Retail 
Against  the  headwinds  of  market  volatilities  and 
increasing  competition  in  2019,  UOB  (China)  focused  on 
continually transforming our retail banking business to meet 
the changing needs of our customers.Our retail revenue grew by close to 30 per cent compared 
with the previous year while our wealth fee income grew 
more than 50 per cent year on year, driven by the quality of 
our comprehensive banking products.Offering integrated financial solutions
In 2019, we continued to optimise our branch network and 
to enhance our digital channels to create a seamless and 
engaging omni-channel experience for our customers.We continued to pioneer digital initiatives for our customers. 
We  were  one  of  the  first  foreign  banks  to  enable  non-
residents  to  sign  up  for  WeChat  Pay  using  their  overseas 
mobile number. Visitors and short-term residents are able to 
make digital payments in China by simply adding their UOB 
(China) debit card to WeChat Pay.We  are  committed  to  offering  financial  services  that 
are  integrated  into  consumers’  daily  lives.  In  September 
2019, we signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) 
with Shanghai Gas (Group) Co. Ltd. so that more than six 
million household customers of Shanghai Gas can access 
our  financial  solutions  to  meet  their  needs  in  wealth 
management, their children’s education and overseas asset 
management.Creating a tailored banking programme to meet the lifestyle 
needs of women 
To  help  affluent  women  achieve  their  lifestyle  priorities, 
UOB  (China)  launched  its  Lady  Programme,  the  first  such 
programme offered to women customers by a foreign bank in 
China. Under the programme, we provide wealth advisory as 
well as exclusive rewards and benefits from premium lifestyle 
brands.助力个人投资者守护及创造财富
为满足中国高净值客户趋稳健的投资需求，提供其多元化的投资解
决方案，大华银行（中国）甄选境内信托公司合作，为中国合格投
资者全新推出了代理销售信托计划的业务。客户通过选择此类产品，可享有更丰富的投资选择，掌握更多投资
机会，实现多元化的资产配置。协助全方位规划子女教育我们不仅帮助客户提早规划储备教育金，以满足其子女不同教育阶
段的财务及金融需求，还提供留学金融服务；也继续开展针对 6-22
岁不同年龄层青少年的教育项目，包括：小小银行家、海外艺术游
学项目、未来领行家新加坡金融实训项目、未来领行家课程以及菁
英培优计划。通过这些项目，我们希望提供更多发展机会帮助客户子女实现个人
潜能，鼓励创造性和关键性思维，培养团队合作、企业家精神和社
会责任感。Growing and preserving wealth for the long term
In  support  of  our  high-net-worth  customers’  long-term 
financial  goals,  UOB  (China)  partnered  with  a  local  trust 
investment  company  to  launch  new  trust  products  for 
accredited individual investors.Through the trusts, our customers have more options to seize 
investment opportunities and to grow their wealth using a 
range of professionally managed products.Planning ahead for the next generation
As our customers take great interest in their children’s future, 
we continue to offer dedicated programmes to help them 
discover and nurture the talents of the next generation. We 
assist them to plan and to save for their children’s education 
and  provide  cross-border  financial  services  for  overseas 
study.We also run educational programmes such as Junior Banker, 
Art Camp, Future Leader Singapore Camp, Future Leader 2-day 
Course and Youth’s Elite Programmes suitable for children 
from six to 22 years old. These programmes are designed to 
nurture the potential of the next generation, to encourage 
creative and critical thinking and to foster in them a spirit of 
teamwork, entrepreneurship as well as social responsibility.24图片说明：我行女性客户受邀参与高端花艺沙龙。Our female customers were invited to join exquisite flower arranging course.图片说明：2019 未来领行家新加坡金融实训之旅，走进新加坡国立大学感受
新加坡独特的教育模式。Our customers’ children joined Future Leader Programme for a summer camp in 
Singapore to experience selected courses in National University of Singapore.25管理层报告
2019 in Review图片说明：大华银行（中国）中山分行开幕剪彩The opening ceremony of UOB (China) Zhongshan Branch批发银行部大华银行（中国）致力于为企业及机构客户提供专业的服务、行业
专长和定制化的金融解决方案，以帮助他们优化财务运营和现金流，
合理管理风险，拓展海外业务并满足他们各类资金需求。联动区域业务网络，增强与客户互动，以帮助企业开启更多业
务潜能
2019 年“一带一路”倡议不断深化中国与东南亚国家之间的经贸往来；
而《粤港澳大湾区发展规划纲要》和《长江三角洲区域一体化发展
规划纲要》为中国构造更多的高质量发展增长极。为了帮助客户把
握由此所带来的新增长机遇。我们不断深化业务布局，强化业务能力，
拓展合作伙伴网络，并对接集团的资源，为其提供发展所需的金融
支持。9 月 , 我行中山分行正式开业。这是首家入驻中山市的外资银行一级
分行，彰显了我们长期深耕中国市场的决心和对发展粤港澳大湾区
政策的支持。中山分行充分利用中山东承西接的区位优势，增进了
我行对于大湾区西部的业务辐射。同时中山分行与其他湾区内分支
机构联动，帮助更多中外企业把握跨境发展机遇。由于我行紧跟大
湾区发展的新格局，2019 年商业银行部南区客户在客户规模上继续
保持双位数增长。图片说明：新加坡贸工部部长陈振声先生（左六），新加坡高级政务部长许
宝琨医生（右五），同大华银行，新交所及中国国际商会一同留念庆祝三方
签约共同助力中国企业以新加坡为枢纽向东盟拓展。Mr Chan Chun Sing, Singapore’s Minister for Trade and Industry, and Dr Koh Poh 
Koon, Singapore’s Senior Minister of State for Trade and Industry, joined UOB, 
CCOIC and SGX in commemorating the MOU to help Chinese enterprises expand 
into ASEAN through Singapore.Wholesale Banking
UOB  (China)  helps  companies  and  financial  institutions 
optimise their business operations and cash flow, manage 
their capital needs and market risks and expand into new 
markets by providing tailored advisory, solutions and sector 
insights.Deepening regional connectivity and customer engagement 
to help companies realise their growth potential
In  2019,  through  the  Belt  and  Road  Initiative  (BRI),  China 
and Southeast Asian countries continued to foster closer 
collaboration on trade and investment. China also launched 
the Greater Bay Area (GBA) Development Blue Print and 
Yangtze River Delta Integration Plan,  which  are  national 
strategies  to  create  more  economic  growth  drivers.  To 
help our clients tap the opportunities arising from these 
initiatives,  we  continued  to  deepen  our  presence,  to 
strengthen our capabilities and to broaden our impact by 
capitalising on UOB Group’s network and through forging 
partner ecosystems.In September, UOB (China) opened the Zhongshan Branch 
in  Guangdong  Province.    The  first  branch  in  Zhongshan 
City opened by a foreign bank, our new Zhongshan Branch 
affirms our long-term commitment to  China and  reflects 
our  confidence  in  China’s  GBA  development  plan.  It  also 
strengthens our presence in South China and enables us to 
expand our services into the west of the GBA. Together with 
our other branches and offices in the GBA, Zhongshan Branch 
will  assist  more  companies  in  the  area  to  seize  regional 
business opportunities. Riding on the development of the 
GBA, we maintained double-digit growth in the number of 
our Commercial Banking clients in South China in 2019.26为了助力中国企业以新加坡为枢纽向东盟地区扩展业务，大华银行
集团还与新加坡交易所和中国国际商会共同签署了合作备忘录。在
合作备忘录框架下，中国国际商会逾十八万家会员企业，可享受大
华银行专业的金融服务和其在东盟一体化的业务网络，并依靠新交
所值得信赖的资本市场结构和高度流动性，向新加坡和东南亚投资。在集团总部的支持下，我行结构贸易与商品融资部和重要的集团客
户建立了在岸战略合作关系，作为重要的银行伙伴支持其在中国及
海外的发展。为了协助客户更好地驾驭多元复杂的东南亚投资环境，我行本年度
在六个城市与各政府部门，专业服务机构和企业合作伙伴办了九场
各类跨境投资研讨活动。通过这些活动，中外企业可以了解东南亚
各市场的机会和现状、风险，以及投资所涉及不同领域的解决方案。其中之一就是 3 月我行与上海浦东发展银行联合主办的“领航丝路 
联动东盟”论坛。论坛聚焦东盟投资新机遇，为 200 多名与会嘉宾
和企业代表分享中美贸易谈判给中国和东盟所带来的产业影响与机
遇，以及“一带一路”的最新投资格局，重点市场和产业前景。除投资活动外，5 月，我行带领 60 家中资企业，走进泰国。通过投
资研讨会等活动，帮助他们切身了解当地情况，并建立商业联系。11 月，我行再次携一系列以跨境为特色的金融解决方案亮相第二届
中国国际进口博览会（进博会），并积极参与新加坡工商联合总会
所组织的商务交流活动， 帮助与会企业了解东南亚投资机遇和挑战，
并针对他们在跨境业务方面的问题提供专业解答。图片说明：大华银行副主席兼总裁兼大华银行（中国）董事长黄一宗先生为“领
航丝路 联动东盟”论坛致开幕词Mr Wee Ee Cheong, Deputy Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, UOB and 
Chairman of UOB (China), making his opening address at the ASEAN Connect 
SeminarTo  help  more  Chinese  enterprises  use  Singapore  as  a 
launchpad  to  expand  into  Southeast  Asia,  in  2019,  UOB 
signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the 
China Chamber of International Commerce and Singapore 
Exchange Limited (SGX). Under this MOU, more than 180,000 
Chinese enterprises under CCOIC can benefit from UOB’s 
banking expertise and integrated ASEAN network, as well as 
from SGX’s trusted capital market infrastructure and deep 
liquidity to venture into Singapore and Southeast Asia.With the support of UOB Group, our Structured Trade and 
Commodity Finance team also established strategic client 
relationships during the year. As their key banking partner, we 
will continue to support their growth in China and overseas.To  assist  our  clients  in  navigating  the  complexities  of 
Southeast Asia’s diverse landscape, we held nine investment 
workshops, forums and seminars with government agencies, 
professional  service  providers  and  business  partners 
across six cities. At the events, participants gained a better 
understanding  of  the  different  operating  environments, 
opportunities  and  challenges  across  Southeast  Asia,  and 
learnt about the financial solutions that could facilitate their 
investments and expansion.One such event was the ASEAN Connect Seminar, organised 
jointly  with  the  Shanghai  Pudong  Development  Bank  in 
Shanghai.  The  seminar  saw  the  attendance  of  more  than 
200 corporate representatives, who gained insights into the 
impact  of  and  opportunities  arising  from  China-US  trade 
negotiations, as well as the investment outlook and industry 
trends arising from Asia’s growing inter-connectivity.We also led a delegate of 60 Chinese companies to Thailand 
in May, during which they learnt more about the investment 
environment in Thailand and connected with local business 
partners.2019 marked the second year we participated in the China 
International  Import  Expo  (CIIE).  There,  we  showcased 
our  comprehensive  cross-border  banking  solutions  and 
contributed to the Singapore Business Federation’s efforts 
to  help  expo  attendees  understand  the  investment 
opportunities and challenges in Singapore.27管理层报告
2019 in Review定制有效解决方案，以满足客户业务拓展中出现的不断变化的
需求
我们紧密把握政策动向，捕捉市场需求变化，并联动大华银行集团
的区域网络，为企业量身打造供应链融资管理、现金管理、套期保值、
进出口贸易等综合性的金融解决方案，帮助国内企业开拓境内及海
外市场。从客户的角度出发，切实做好现金管理业务，一直是我们的工作重
点之一。2019 年，国内对于境内和跨境资金池相继推出新规，我们
深入了解政策，并结合每个客户的需求设计定制化方案，协助客户
改善流动性管理。因此，我们的境内或跨境资金池客户数翻了一番。例如，5 月我行紧跟财税新政风向，推出零利率境内资金池“及时雨”，
帮助多家企业在第一时间享受新政所带来的切实的优惠，降低企业
内部资金流动成本。在集团的优势市场， 我们协助跨国集团客户制定区域资金管理方案，
有效增强集团客户在不同市场的分支机构间的连系。例如，我行通
过内部合作，为一家跨国综合性大型企业在中国区总部提供了一套
资金池方案，在有效缓解旗下 50 多家子公司支付问题的同时，也保
证了其内部的风险管控以及资金管理的优化。同时，利用集团在海外强大的网络优势以及在东南亚地区大量的客
户基数，我行为一家大型国有企业客户在泰国成功完成了客户在当
地的第一笔应收账款融资交易，并为其在境内以及东南亚地区的分
支机构提供区域性的利率优化方案，实现了客户的资金整合，提高
了客户的现金收益率。28图片说明：新加坡贸工部部长陈振声先生与新加坡代表团参观第二届进博会
大华银行展台Mr Chan Chun Sing, Singapore’s Minister for Trade and Industry, leading Singapore 
delegates to visit the UOB booth at the CIIEOffering enterprises tailored solutions to support their 
evolving business needs
We  continued  to  be  mindful  of  changes  in  policies  and 
market trends, leveraging UOB Group’s extensive network and 
expertise in the region to offer our clients comprehensive 
solutions  in  cash  management,  supply  chain  financing, 
hedging and trade to support their expansion plans within 
and across borders.Our cash management business has always been one of our 
priorities  to  support  our  clients’  business  needs.  In  2019, 
China issued multiple policies on domestic and cross-border 
cash pooling structures. To help  our  clients  benefit from 
such policy updates, we developed customised solutions 
aimed at helping them optimise their liquidity management. 
Our efforts enabled us to double the number of clients using 
domestic and cross-border cash sweeping in 2019 compared 
with the year before.For example, in our close monitoring of China’s new policy on 
a value-added tax exemption on interest-free loans between 
entities  under  the  same  parent  company,  we  launched 
quickly a zero-interest rate domestic cash pooling solution 
in May. The solution was aimed at helping our clients reduce 
overall financing cost for their intra-group financing activities 
and improve the efficiency of their overall working capital 
management.For clients with a regional footprint, we developed regional 
cash and treasury management solutions to help them have 
greater  connectivity  across  their  operations  in  different 
markets. For example, we assisted a leading international 
conglomerate to set up a domestic cash pool for its China 
headquarters.  Our  solution  helped  improve  the  payment 
efficiency of the client’s more than 50 subsidiaries, enhance 
its internal risk control and optimise its funding management.In addition, tapping the Group’s strong network and wide 
client base in Southeast Asia, we successfully conducted the 
first account receivable financing for a Chinese state-owned 
enterprise (SOE) Group in Thailand. We also offered to the 
SOE a regional interest rate optimisation scheme that helped 
to consolidate the cash positions of its subsidiaries in China 
and Southeast Asia for enhanced cash yield.近年来，供应链金融发展迅速。本年度，我们扩充了供应链融资的
整体解决方案， 更高效地向客户的供应商提供流动性支持。我们签订了首单不可撤销付款承诺 (IPU) 供应商融资服务协议。该服
务帮助齐心集团以更灵活的方式与其供应商结算， 优化集团现金流，
在为其上游企业解决融资困难的同时，加强了自身与供应商之间的
战略合作关系。另一方面，这有助于企业供应链上的广大中小型供
应商企业拓宽融资渠道，降低融资成本，改善现金流并降低经营风险。归功于项目增长以及持续建构供应商与经销商的生态体系的长期努
力，供应链融资营收较去年增长超逾五成。持续助力金融机构实现区域扩张
大华银行 ( 中国 ) 结合本地金融市场讯息并协同集团各地区的专业人
才，全面支持我行的金融机构客户，包括银行、非银行金融机构、
环球房地产基金和金融投资者。我们在北京、上海、深圳拥有 10 余名由深谙不同行业领域知识的银
行家和分析师组成的本土团队，为客户提供涵盖融资、现金管理、
贸易融资、利率 / 货币 / 商品套期保值和资本市场上的全面解决方
案，帮助金融机构客户在中国及海外拓展业务。图片说明：大华银行（中国）批发银行部（企业）主管郑濬女士（右）与齐
心集团董事长陈钦鹏先生（左）签订 IPU 供应链融资服务协议Ms  Adaline  Zheng,  Head  of  Wholesale  Banking,  UOB  (China)  (right),  and  Mr 
Qinpeng Chen, Chairman of Shenzhen Comix Group Company Ltd (left) signing 
the Bank’s first IPU supply chain financing agreementIn 2019, we also expanded our suite of financial supply chain 
management solutions to assist our clients and their value 
chain suppliers in improving their liquidity management.We  launched  the  Irrevocable  Payment  Undertaking  (IPU) 
supply chain financing solution. Our IPU solution helps our 
clients and their suppliers, which are typically small- and 
medium-sized enterprises overcome challenges in accessing 
quality financing. In addressing such challenges, we help our 
clients strengthen their supplier relationships. We signed our 
first service agreement with Comix Group which enjoyed 
greater flexibility in its payments to suppliers. They in turn 
benefitted  from  more  stable  cash  flows,  lower  financing 
costs and reduced business risks.In  2019,  our  financial  supply  chain  management  business 
revenue grew by 55 per cent over the previous year. This was 
largely attributed to an increase in the number of supply 
chain  financing  programmes  we  offered  and  our  deep 
understanding on our client’s industry value chains.Supporting  financial  institutions  in  their  regional 
expansion
At UOB (China), we combine local market knowledge and 
the Group’s expertise in support of our financial institution 
clients, which include banks, non-bank financial institutions 
and global property funds and financial sponsors.We  have  more  than  ten  dedicated  bankers  and  analysts 
in  Shanghai,  Beijing  and  Shenzhen.  They  help  our  clients 
grow  their  business  in  China  and  overseas  by  offering 
comprehensive  solutions  in  financing,  cash  management, 
trade financing, hedging for interest rates, currencies and 
commodities, as well as the capital markets.29管理层报告
2019 in Review在市场持续波动和金融科技颠覆传统行业的背景下，我们关注在领
先市场为客户提供优质解决方案。随着“一带一路”倡议带来的巨
大机遇，中国市场的联通性始终是我们客户的首要战略关注点。我
们持续建立现有的强大解决方案平台，利用我们的专业服务体系和
丰富产品组合，为我行客户提供差异化的解决方案，满足其在中国
及东南亚的整体金融风险管理需求。因此，我行在金融机构客户数
方面实现 18% 的增长，并持续深化了与国内领先金融机构集团之间
的合作伙伴关系。在大华银行（中国）积极协调和促成下，大华银行作为交易模式构
建、咨询和牵头银行之一，协助中国农业银行新加坡分行在《可持
续融资框架》下成功落地 2 亿美元绿色银团贷款。这是该行首单在《可
持续融资框架》下的绿色贷款。大华银行协助客户构建交易模式，
参与制定了《可持续融资框架》，并在非常紧迫的时限内完成了贷
款文件。携手合作伙伴，助推初创企业成长
大华银行（中国）积极构建合作生态系统并利用集团在东南亚的业
务网络和金融科技生态圈来为初创企业提供共享办公、业务资源对
接、跨境投资咨询以及融资在内的金融解决方案。8 月，我行和中国最大的共享空间品牌优客工场合作签订合作备忘
录，携手为初创企业提供共享办公及一站式金融服务。我行还继续和毅峰资本合作，为一些初创企业提供金融服务。我们
还联同毅峰资本分别在北京和上海举办了“财务实操训练营”，每
场邀请了超过 30 家科创企业参加，针对科创企业在发展过程中遇到
的外汇结算、跨境资金安排以及上市规划等实际问题，打造专属课堂，
借此帮助企业提升财务管理水平，助其发展。Against the backdrop of a volatile market and disruption 
from  financial  technology  players,  we  focused  on  our 
comprehensive support of our clients to stay ahead of the 
competition. The connectivity of China to other markets and 
the immense opportunities arising from the BRI remained 
a strategic priority for our clients. We capitalised on our 
network coverage and differentiated solutions to help our 
clients to manage their risks effectively across China and 
Southeast Asia. As a result, we grew our financial institution 
client base by 18 per cent year on year and deepened our 
relationships  with  leading  financial  institution  groups  in 
China.UOB (China) also supported the Group in a green club loan 
facility  of  US$200  million  to  Agricultural  Bank  of  China 
Limited (ABC), Singapore Branch. UOB acted as Joint Green 
Structuring Advisers and Coordinators for the deal, which 
was the first green club loan facility established under ABC 
Singapore Branch’s Sustainable Financing Framework. Through 
our seamless collaboration, UOB Group provided advisory 
on deal structuring, jointly developed the ABC Singapore 
Branch’s Sustainable Financing Framework and completed the 
facility documentation within a tight timeline.Collaborating with ecosystem partners to accelerate the 
growth of start-ups 
UOB  (China)  have  been  actively  building  ecosystem 
partnerships and tapping UOB Group’s extensive network 
and FinTech ecosystem to provide start-up companies with 
access to co-working spaces, business resources and cross-
border investment advisory and financial solutions.In August 2019, we signed an MOU with China’s largest co-
working space provider, Ucommune, to provide financial and 
workspace solutions for start-ups operating across Greater 
China.We also continued to collaborate with InnoVen Capital to 
offer comprehensive banking services to start-up companies. 
In  addition,  we  partnered  InnoVen  Capital  to  host  two 
Finance Training Camps in Beijing and Shanghai for more than 
30 technology start-ups. The camps aimed to address the 
issues start-ups face in foreign exchange settlement, cross-
border  cash  management  and  public  listing  planning  by 
facilitating the sharing of best practices and recommended 
solutions for better financial management and to help them 
realise their growth ambitions.环球金融2019 年，中国继续加大金融市场开放力度，鼓励国际投资者参与，并
加大与全球和区域市场间的互联互通。大华银行（中国）顺势而上，
积极对接集团业务网络，连接中国与东南亚两大市场，帮助中外企业
了解并开辟更多商机。同时，我行不断丰富自身金融产品交易能力，丰富交易品种，令我们
的交易收入同比增长了 25%。深化东南亚货币“一站式”服务
2019 年，大华银行（中国）继续深化东南亚货币“一站式”服务，便
利企业进行东南亚货币直接兑换、融资和套保等业务，同时为国内市
场提供该类货币流动性。目前我行可为客户提供新加坡元、泰铢、马来西亚林吉特的直接兑换
服务，并于 2019 年新增多个币种的无本金交割远期品种，包括菲律
宾比索和印尼盾等，满足客户在东南亚币种离岸交易的多种需求。利用我们在东南亚货币方面的优势，我行积极帮助企业拓展海外融
资渠道。我们创新性地设立了境外新加坡元的贷款配合境内操作货
币掉期的融资方式。从而在没有增加外汇和利率风险敞口的情况下，
降低了企业的融资成本，为企业开拓了融资渠道，得到企业的赞誉。2019 年，大华银行（中国）再度上榜银行间人民币外汇市场四十强
和中国外汇交易中心外汇交易平台上询价点击成交 (ESP) 业务量十
强。为客户提供多样化的贵金属及大宗商品交易方案
2019 年，大华银行（中国）在国内主要的交易场所获得了多项业务资
质，成为国内贵金属及商品业务资质最为齐全的外资银行之一，令我
们可以满足客户多样化的交易需求。我行成为上海期货交易所首个东南亚外资银行会员，并在上期所完
成期货转现货  交易一笔。*Global Markets
In  2019,  China  continued  to  open  its  financial  sector  to 
foreign investors and to strengthen its links to global and 
regional markets. We tapped our established networks across 
ASEAN and Greater China to help businesses understand and 
seize the opportunities arising from the region’s diversified 
markets.UOB (China) achieved 25 per cent year-on-year growth in 
our trading revenue as we continued to deepen our trading 
capabilities and to broaden our suite of solutions.Expanding our suite of one-stop solutions for Southeast 
Asian currencies
To support our clients’ needs, in 2019, we remained focused 
on enhancing our suite of one-stop solutions for Southeast 
Asian currencies in areas such as direct exchange, fundraising 
and  hedging.  Our  solutions  also  helped  to  increase  the 
liquidity  of  Southeast  Asian  currencies  in  the  domestic 
market.In addition to offering direct currency exchange services in 
the Singapore dollar (SGD), Thai baht and Malaysian ringgit, 
in 2019 we included more currencies such as the Philippine 
peso and Indonesian rupiah to our currency basket for non-
deliverable forward. This enables us to offer greater support 
for our clients’ offshore foreign exchange (FX) transactions in 
China.Tapping  our  expertise  in  Southeast  Asian  FX  markets, 
we  helped  companies  to  widen  their  overseas  financing 
channels.  For  example,  we  developed  an  innovative 
solution to provide offshore Singapore-dollar loans with a 
complementary onshore SGD-renminbi currency swap, which 
helps clients to lower their funding costs, without increasing 
FX and interest rate risks. The solution was well received by 
our clients.In 2019, UOB (China) was among the top 40 traders in China’s 
interbank FX market and the top 10 traders on China Foreign 
Exchange Trade System on an Executable Streaming Prices 
basis for the second year.Providing comprehensive bullion and commodity trading 
solutions
In  2019,  the  range  of  bullion  and  commodity  solutions 
we  offered  for  the  major  exchanges  in  China  was  one 
of  the  most  comprehensive  among  foreign  banks,  as  we 
stayed committed to meeting our clients’ diverse trading 
requirements.We  also  became  the  first  Southeast  Asia-headquartered 
bank to be a member of the Shanghai Futures Exchange and 
completed our first exchange of futures for physicals*.30* 期货转现货（期转现）是指持有同一交割月份合约的多空双方之间达成
现货买卖协议后，变期货部位为现货部位的交易。期转现实现了双方场
外交易并可保证期现市场风险同时锁定。* An exchange of futures for physical (EFP) allows for one party to swap a 
futures contract for the actual underlying asset. EFPs are traded OTC and 
are often used by commodities producers to hedge positions or regulate 
production.31信息科技2019 年，大华银行（中国）一如既往地致力于新系统的建设及现有
系统的整合，以持续提升客户体验并促进银行的服务效率。11 月，我们上线了贵金属交易平台。该平台令我行环球金融交易平
台可直连上海黄金交易所和上海期货交易所，在实现黄金和白银自
动化交易的同时，进一步增强了对风险的监测能力。我们还在本地个人银行理财产品管理系统中增加了证券挂钩可转换
结构性票据和结构性票据产品，通过该系统可对新增产品进行下单
管理和清算操作。 这也丰富了我行为客户提供的产品种类，进一步
的自动化操作也可以更有效地服务于我行客户。我行还继续优化大华银行（中国）网上银行，包括延长了机构客户
在大华银行（中国）网上银行的提交付款指令的截止期限，提高机
构客户大额付款指令的金额门槛。这些操作令客户能够更从容便捷
地进行资金安排。我行坚持贯彻确保监管合规的工作重点。2019 年，我们持续优化本
行的监管报表系统，将国家外汇管理局的报表功能整合至银行的监
管报送统一管理系统平台。Technology
In  2019,  UOB  (China)  stepped  up  our  efforts  to  develop 
new and to integrate our existing technology and systems 
to  enhance  customer  experience  and  to  drive  greater 
productivity.In  November,  we  launched  a  Precious  Metals  Trading 
System Platform. This system provides a direct interface link 
between both the Shanghai Gold Exchange and Shanghai 
Future  Exchange  and  the  Bank’s  Global  Markets  Platform 
(GMP).  In  connecting  GMP  to  the  exchanges,  we  enabled 
auto-trading of gold and silver and are also able to monitor 
the  transactions  in  real  time,  thereby  enhancing  our  risk 
management processes.We  also  integrated  equity-linked  and  structured  note 
product  capabilities  into  our  Local  Retail  Investment 
System for faster processing of retail transactions. With this 
expanded system, we are able to execute transactions such 
as order management and settlement for our new products. 
Both can enrich our product shelf and  enable us to serve our 
customers in a more automated and efficient manner.We also enhanced the UOB Business Internet Banking Plus 
Payment  System  (BIBPlus),  extending  the  cut-off  time  for 
customers’ payment requests and raising the threshold of 
high-value payment instructions. This provides customers 
with more flexibility in managing their cash flow.Ensuring  regulatory  compliance  remained  a  key  focus  in 
2019 as we continued to optimise our regulatory reporting 
systems. For example, we migrated and integrated the State 
Authority of Foreign Exchange reporting into our Unified 
Platform for Regulatory Reporting system.管理层报告
2019 in Review图片说明：大华银行（中国）行长兼首席执行官符懋赞先生参与上海银定价
机制启动仪式
Mr Peter Foo, President and Chief Executive Officer, UOB (China) (first from right) 
jointly officiating the launch of the Shanghai Silver Benchmark Price图片说明：我行联同上海黄金交易所共同举办的研讨会Our Bank held a seminar jointly with SGE for companies in the gold industry.此外，我行还获得上海黄金交易所询价交易尝试做市商资格；我行还
成为上海黄金交易所上海银唯一外资银行定价商，作为报价行参与
上海银的定价过程。凭借多个交易业务资质和出色交易能力，我行在
上海黄金交易所的全年交易量稳居外资行之首。2019 年 , 作为大连商品交易所的商品互换交易商， 我行参与了大连商
品交易所铁矿石场外互换交易，成功启动了期货交易所场外商品互
换业务。帮助客户把握市场和合作机遇
2019 年，我行举办了一系列活动和创新性项目，旨在帮助中国及东南
亚企业，了解新市场动向，发掘跨境发展及合作机遇。6 月，我们联同上海黄金交易所共同举办了研讨会，邀行国内外 40
家黄金产业链企业，共同探讨东南亚及中国黄金市场的生产、消费与
税务情况，并发掘跨国合作机会。11 月，我们协助中国黄金协会和
世界黄金协会所组织的中国矿业访问团，在新加坡和马来西亚实地
考察产金行业。我行还积极配合上海黄金交易所“黄金之路”项目，依托上海黄金
交易所国际板，推出首个“黄金租赁 + 珠宝加工”业务，推动国内
黄金加工制造企业与“一带一路”沿线国家黄金珠宝商进行产业对接。We were also appointed by the Shanghai Gold Exchange (SGE) 
as a Trial Market Maker for gold price. In addition, we were 
the first and only foreign bank to become the Fixing Member 
of the SGE’s Shanghai Silver Benchmark Price Trading. Backed 
by our trading licences and capabilities,  we achieved the 
highest trading volume among the foreign banks on the SGE.In  2019,  we  also  launched  our  over-the-counter  (OTC) 
commodity swap trade solutions with the completion of our 
first OTC swap trade in iron ore on the Dalian Commodity 
Exchange.Helping clients seize cross-border business opportunities
In  2019,  we  ran  various  events  and  programmes  to  keep 
clients abreast of market developments and cross-border 
business opportunities.In June, we partnered SGE to host a seminar for 40 companies 
in the gold industry. At the seminar, participants exchanged 
views on topics such as gold production, consumption and 
tax  in  China  and  Southeast  Asia  and  discussed  potential 
collaborations. In November, we assisted the World Gold 
Council and China Gold Association in arranging a delegation 
of mining companies to visit Singapore and Malaysia to learn 
more about the gold industry in these markets.We made our inaugural transaction for the SGE’s Gold Road 
Project by helping a Thai client on gold leasing through the 
SGE  International  Board  and  connecting  our  client  with 
a  renowned  Chinese  jeweller  to  manufacture  jewellery 
with the leased gold for export to Thailand. Through the 
project, we established a new model to engage our clients 
along the gold industry value chain and to facilitate cross-
border collaboration opportunities under the Belt and Road 
Initiative.3233管理层报告
2019 in Review
员工
推动员工未来职业发展
在大华银行（中国），我们致力于投资于员工个人及其职业发展，
并且我们相信这始于正确的开始。我们针对员工的工作职能和职业
发展需求，开展了丰富多样的培训项目，为员工配备未来所需的能
力和技能，以更好地为我行客户服务。同时，我行继续提升人力资源管理流程的数字化程度；持续提高行
内各部门、各级别管理层的领导力；并根据企业经营策略的调整，
适时进行与组织变革，调整人才需求规划，重新定义关键人才标准，
优化企业流程。在我行数字化学习的实践中，“技术平台搭建”和“学习资源建设”
是两个最为基础的方面。2019 年大华银行（中国）上线了全新的在
线学习系统——SuccessFactors，并牵手拥有多类线上优质课程的专
业学习资源平台，为员工提供了丰富的自我学习课程。Leadership Right By You - Leading Team 项目于 2019 年 11 月 14 日正式
启动；该项目面向经理级别以上的中层管理者，专门针对该级别学
习者的工作职能和管理视角而设计。该项目旨在拓展该级别员工的
领导才能和拓宽他们的同级网络。该课程为期两个月，目前已有 48
位大华银行大中华区的同事参与了该课程。Colleagues
Developing Our Colleagues for Future
We are committed to investing in our people and to developing 
them personally and professionally. We  believe  this  starts 
with a thorough understanding of and planning around the 
needs of talent. As part of our talent management approach, 
we  run  numerous  training  and  development  programmes 
to prepare our colleagues for the roles of the future and to 
serve our customers’ needs better.we also continued to enhance the leadership capabilities of 
our colleagues at all levels, to digitalise our human resources 
(HR)  management  process,  and  to  lead  organisational 
changes. Other areas of focus included resource planning, 
refining our key personnel selection criteria and standardising 
HR procedures to ensure that we are optimally organised to 
achieve business objectives.In 2019, we launched a new digital learning system called 
SuccessFactors  to  provide  a  more  intuitive  and  engaging 
learning experience for our colleagues. The system features 
articles,  videos,  learning  paths  and  workshops  which  are 
easily accessed through mobile devices or desktops. We also 
collaborated with a professional learning resource provider 
to  offer  quality  online  courses  to  equip  colleagues  with 
relevant skills.To  support  our  colleagues’  career  development,  we 
developed  the  Leadership  Right  By  You  -  Leading  Team 
programme. Launched on 14 November 2019, the programme 
was  specially  designed  for  senior  managers  and  aims  to 
develop their leadership and communications skills. Since 
the programme’s launch, 48 UOB colleagues from Greater 
China have completed a two-month learning journey and 
strengthened their leadership capabilities.本年度 , 我们仍不遗余力地推行 " 大中华区领导力发展项目”，该项
目旨在培养大中华地区高素质、未来型，且“掌握数字化时代的卓
越领导力”的人才。学员们走出银行，参访了以金融科技见长的企业，
和被访企业高管们交流数字化变革和领导力的话题，深入探索自身
领导力优势和潜力，还在数字化学习平台上亲身体验了未来学习模
式。该项目形式新颖，主题与时俱进。2019 年共有 46 位来自大中华区的高潜质人才从项目中毕业。2019 年，大华银行（中国）新引进了由集团发起的 Escalator 项目。
该项目是针对集团在全球范围内的高潜质员工的人才发展项目，旨
在培养复合型领导人才，加强领导梯队的搭建，构建职业加速通道。
符合条件的员工通过完成跨区域、跨职能的轮岗任务，参与组织战
略项目，释放个人潜质，提升作为一名复合型领导的关键胜任力，
从而实现个人职业发展目标。作为面向新生代人才的发展项目，2019 年我行大中华区共有 14 位学
员从管理培训生（管培生）项目中毕业并回到 5 个业务部门继续在
岗锻炼。同时我们也迎来了 16 位年轻新伙伴的加入，他们已经正式
启动管培生项目。与往年不同的是，这次新加入的管培生将直接隶
属于不同分行，如此安排是为了让管培生有更强的归属感，从而更
好的扎根在不同城市，助力当地业务发展。关爱员工
在关爱员工方面，2019 年， 我行组织了系列员工健康养生讲座，亲
子教育讲座，提醒员工关注个人及孩子的身心健康。同时，大华银
行（中国）员工俱乐部继续提供覆盖全国的健身项目，提供员工健
身便利。除此之外，我行也一并推出了涵盖美食、旅游度假、演出
票务等员工专享优惠，提高员工生活品质。我行的员工俱乐部，还组织了一系列主题活动，如：结合中西方传
统文化的节庆活动“捞鱼生，闹元宵”，中秋节的手工月饼，圣诞
节的圣诞树制作；提倡健康生活方式的春季骑行，秋季徒步，马拉
松三步走；以及提升艺术、文化熏陶的展览参观等，以丰富员工生活， 
并增强员工归属感。图片说明：大华银行（中国）推出 Leadership Right By You - Leading Team 学
习发展项目图片说明：同事们参与完成大中华区领导力发展项目系列课程The participants of UOB (China)’s Leadership Right By You – Leading Team 
programmeColleagues participating in the 2019 Greater China Leadership Academy Programme 
Level One Module34In  2019,  we  also  rolled  out  the  Greater  China  Leadership 
Academy, a suite of leadership development programmes 
to impart practical leadership skills in digital era. Courses 
are delivered through a next-generation learning model on a 
digital learning platform. Participants went through intensive 
and  unique  learning  experiences,  for  example,  by  visiting 
financial technology companies and exchanging insights on 
digital transformation and leadership with one another.In 2019, 46 existing and emerging leaders from Greater China 
completed the programme.In  2019,  our  high-performing  colleagues  also  had  the 
oppor tunity  to  join  the  Group-wide  Development 
Acceleration Initiative, which offers them the opportunity 
to accelerate their personal and professional development. 
As  part  of  the  Programme,  participants  were  required  to 
complete  cross-country,  cross-function  assignments  to 
develop their strategic thinking skills and to sharpen their 
leadership capabilities.To  groom  young  talent,  our  Management  Associate  (MA) 
programme  continued  to  attract  high-calibre  and  early-
career talent from Greater China. In 2019, 14 MAs completed 
the programme and commenced their careers with us. We 
also had 16 new MAs start their job rotations at different 
branches. In 2019, we adopted a new rotation practice by 
placing  each  of  the  MAs  at  a  dedicated  home  branch  to 
boost their sense of belonging and to help them develop a 
deeper understanding of operations at their home branch.Caring for Our Colleagues
In caring for the well-being of our colleagues, we continued 
to offer a series of programmes in 2019 to help them achieve 
better work-life harmony. For example, we hosted health 
and parenting talks to encourage our colleagues to focus 
on their families’ and their personal health. Our Staff Club 
partnered wellness companies to offer complimentary gym 
access, as well as benefits and discounts on food, travel and 
entertainment to all colleagues across the country.To  foster  the  unity  and  a  sense  of  belonging  among  our 
colleagues, we organised festive and cultural activities. Some 
of these activities included Lo Hei Meets the Lantern Festival, 
hands-on mooncake-making workshops and Christmas tree-
making  classes.  We  also  offered  outdoor  excursions  and 
recreational activities such as cycling, mini marathons, hiking 
and museum visits to promote healthier lifestyles.35管理层报告
2019 in Review
社区
公益路上不停步，通过 UOB Heartbeat 系列项目回馈社区
我行长期坚持通过 UOB Heartbeat 系列公益项目造福大众、点亮心灵，
回馈业务所在社区。UOB Heartbeat 系列公益项目依托公益合作、企
业捐助及员工参与三大渠道，共建关爱社区，传播正能量。我们专注在艺术、儿童及教育三大领域履行社会责任，推动社会的
可持续发展。通过艺术画廊连接社区
2018 年 11 月正式开放的大华银行艺术画廊（UOB Art Gallery）是我行重
要的艺术推广和交流的平台。我行定期在这里展示亚洲的艺术家创作，
举办多样的社区艺术活动和来自亚洲各地的艺术家开展跨文化对话。2019 年这里共举办了两场艺术展，第一场是于 8 月 29 号开幕的“隽永
墨韵”大华银行水墨艺术展，和 11 月 8 号推出的当代艺术家郑重宾先
生的“正在成为什么样的空间” 多媒体装置及水墨展。“隽永墨韵”大华银行水墨艺术展呈现了在不同意识形态和艺术视角
碰撞下，多彩而富有活力的亚洲水墨创作。十三件展品包括大华银行
典藏的海外华人艺术先驱的传统水墨创作，荣获“大华银行年度水墨
艺术大奖”的当代水墨作品，以及大型科技水墨互动性装置《巨墨绘》。“隽永墨韵”也作为联合展，亮相上海城市空间艺术季，与滨江两岸的
艺术场馆遥相呼应，让公众亲密接触公共艺术，共同提升上海的艺术
魅力。Community
Keep the Good Going through UOB Heartbeat
The  UOB  Heartbeat  corporate  social  responsibility  (CSR) 
programme reflects our long-term commitment to enrich 
lives,  to  open  minds  and  to  strengthen  bonds  in  the 
communities  where  we  operate.  We  aim  to  help  create 
sustainable good and more caring and inclusive societies 
through our efforts in corporate philanthropy, stakeholder 
partnerships and employee participation.We  focus  on  three  areas  which  we  believe  are  essential 
for  the  quality  and  progress  of  society:  art,  children  and 
education.Raising art awareness and appreciation through UOB Art 
Gallery 
Since  its  launch  in  November  2018,  our  UOB  Art  Gallery 
has been a main channel for us to  connect with the local 
community through art. It is where we showcase UOB’s art 
collection from across Asia, organise art-related events and 
facilitate cross-cultural dialogue with regional artists.In  2019,  we  hosted  two  art  exhibitions  at  the  UOB  Art 
Gallery. The first was the UOB Art in Ink exhibition, which 
kicked  off  on  29  August  2019  and  displayed  diverse  and 
vibrant contemporary Asian ink art paintings. The second is 
contemporary artist, Mr Zheng Chongbin’s “What the Space 
Wants  to  Be”  ink  painting  and  installation  art  exhibition 
launched on 8 November 2019.The ink painting exhibits were grouped into three categories 
based on their style and content. The first section comprised 
selected  traditional  ink  artworks  from  the  UOB  Art 
Collection.  Also  on  display  were  selected  award-winning 
works from the UOB Art in Ink Awards as well as a highly-
acclaimed interactive art installation, the Huge Brush Ink.Our UOB Art in Ink exhibition was also part of the Shanghai 
Urban Space Art Season 2019, which aimed to foster stronger 
awareness and appreciation of art among local residents.值画廊开幕一周年之际，大华银行艺术画廊为公众呈献当代艺术家
郑重宾先生的“正在成为什么样的空间” 多媒体装置及水墨展。 “正
在成为什么样的空间”所选 11 幅作品全部是郑重宾先生近几年的艺
术创作，包含绘画、影像及装置，这也是画廊揭开的首个艺术家个展，
画展在中外艺术界也收获了较好的反响。为了培养青年艺术人才，推动艺术的跨文化交流，大华银行艺术画
廊邀请“大华银行年度水墨艺术大奖”获奖艺术家赖韦林先生参与
“驻地艺术家项目”，他也是第二位受邀参与驻地创作的青年艺术家。
赖韦林先生有感于一个月的本地文化体验和艺术熏陶，为画廊创作
了两幅作品。2019 年，大华银行艺术画廊共接待观众逾 5,600 人次。携手艺术机构，共同推动艺术探索
除了利用自有的大华银行艺术画廊，大华银行 ( 中国 ) 也通过与艺术
机构和交流盛事合作，推动更多人，尤其是年轻一代探索艺术世界。2019 年，大华银行（中国）作为首席合作伙伴，支持首届艺术与设
计创新未来教育博览会 (FutureLab)，共同推动跨文化交流和艺术分
享。贴合 Futurelab“面向未来”的主题，我行献上了近 200 平米的多功
能艺术空间 (UOB Art Space) 并围绕环境保护、可持续发展、数字多
媒体等主题做了艺术展示和活动，激发公众在这些领域的思考和参
与。在为期一周的活动中，UOB Art Space 展开 8 场“教育大家谈”活动，
邀请国际顶尖艺术家、知名大学教育家和专业人士的跨界对话和艺
术活动。同时这里也举办了 4 场艺术工作坊，让大中小院校的学生
都可以体验艺术创作的乐趣。有超过 400 名与会观众参与到这些系
列活动当中。To mark its first anniversary, the UOB Art Gallery presented 
its  first  solo  exhibition  by  contemporary  artist  Zheng 
Chongbin.  Titled  “What  the  Space  Wants  to  Be”,  the 
exhibition  displayed  a  selection  of  Mr  Zheng’s  signature 
acrylic ink paintings, light-and-space installations and a video 
installation.In 2019, UOB Art Gallery also welcomed its second artist-
in-residence,  Mr  Eric  Lai,  a  winner  of  the  UOB  Art  in  Ink 
Awards. Mr Lai immersed himself in the local art community, 
visiting art museums and galleries, meeting local artists and 
attending art events. Upon completing his one-month stint, 
Mr Lai created two new artworks for the gallery.In 2019, UOB Art Gallery received more than 5,600 visitors at 
its exhibitions and workshops.Extending our reach through partnerships
We extended our community outreach through partnerships 
with  art  institutions  and  events  to  help  open  minds, 
especially of the young, to the creative possibilities of art.We  were  the  lead  partner  of  the  2019  Art  and  Design 
Education:  FutureLab,  an  international  exhibition  which 
promotes  the  exchange  of  cross-cultural  ideas  and 
expression.We  set  up  a  200  square-metre  UOB  Art  Space  at  the 
exhibition to showcase artworks and host events  focused on 
environmental protection and sustainability, multimedia and 
digitally creative design.At the week-long FutureLab exhibition, the UOB Art Space 
held  eight  interactive  Art  Talks  with  some  of  the  most 
outstanding artists, educators and professionals from China 
and from around the world who shared their insights into art 
and design. We also organised four workshops for students 
of  different  ages  to  gain  a  hands-on  learning  experience 
of creating art. More than 400 visitors participated in the 
workshops and Art Talk series.图片说明 : 大华银行副主席兼总裁兼大华银行（中国）董事长黄一宗先生（右
四）与众嘉宾一起为艺术展揭幕敬酒
Mr Wee Ee Cheong, Deputy Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, UOB and 
Chairman of UOB (China) (fourth from right), with management and guests at the 
opening ceremony of the UOB Art in Ink exhibition郑重宾先生 7.7x2.8 米的巨幅作品《标识起伏的边缘》给观众带来极大的视觉
冲击
Mr Zheng’s 7.7 x 2.8 m painting titled Tracing the Undulating Contours was the 
centrepiece of his exhibition at the UOB Art Gallery.图片说明：爱丁堡艺术学院院长 Juan Cruz 教授在“教育大家谈”活动通过介
绍实例来讨论如何从各方面构建一个艺术学院
Professor Juan Cruz, Principal, Edinburgh College of Art, shared his experience of 
establishing an art school at one of the UOB Art Talks.图片说明：一位学生在参与艺术工作坊，发挥想象力绘制自家的餐桌食物A budding artist focused on her finishing touch at a food painting workshop at 
the UOB Art Space.3637管理层报告
2019 in Review图片说明：赖韦林先生指导小学员作画Mr Eric Lai guiding the handiwork of a student in ink painting图片说明：师生代表在画展现场为我行员工讲述自己创作背后的故事
A beneficiary of the Folk Art Sponsorship programme explaining her folk art 
creation to UOB (China) colleagues at the UOB Heartbeat Art Exhibition图片说明：大华银行“爱心公益跑 / 行”上海站活动在东岸滨江开跑
Leading the way at the UOB Heartbeat Run/Walk图片说明：大华银行（中国）将代表善款的支票赠予爱德基金会及新叶公益
代表
UOB (China)’s management presenting the cheque to the representatives from the 
Amity Foundation and YesKids让艺术点亮心灵
艺术给孩子打开一扇想象的大门。2019 年我行继续举办“小小艺术家
工作坊”艺术公益活动，帮助孩子们了解东方艺术，放飞艺术想象力。9 月底，我们为来自美好临汾社区的有特殊家庭背景的小学员们，举办
了水墨艺术工作坊，并邀请青年艺术家赖韦林先生带领小学员们学习
基础水墨和绘画知识，以星与川为主题，进行即兴艺术创作。12 月，我们特邀敦煌研究院的管燕茹老师为小学员们品读敦煌的文
化和故事，同时带领小学员们绘制以敦煌壁画为灵感的动画手作。2019 年，我行继续资助 “大华银行民间艺术特长班”，以传承和发
扬非物质文化遗产艺术。目前该项目资助的艺术项目包括：漆器特
长班、唐卡特长班以及毛毡特长班。6 月，我们在大华银行大厦一层，特别举办了“‘童’样的世界”
公益艺术展，展示 23 件民间艺术特长班师生的作品。大部分作品通
过员工义卖形式被我行员工收藏，所得公益款继续用于民间艺术特
长班项目。我们也邀请了 8 位民间艺术特长班的师生代表来到上海参加我们的
画展等系列公益活动，开阔视野，体验不同的艺术和文化形式。Inspiring the next generation of artists
In 2019, we continued holding our junior artist workshops 
to  develop  children’s  interest  in  art  and  to  inspire  their 
imagination.To nurture young artistic talents, we invited artist, Mr Eric 
Lai, to run an ink painting workshop for the underprivileged 
children  from  Meihao  Linfen  Community  Development 
Foundation.  Under  his  guidance,  the  children  created 
paintings inspired by the stars and mountains.We  also  held  a  junior  artist  workshop  that  focused  on 
Dunhuang art. Participating children learnt from Ms Guan 
Yanru from the Dunhuang Academy China about the history 
of the Mogao Grottoes, a UNESCO World Heritage site in 
Dunhuang, Gansu, and its wall paintings and sculptures.In our ongoing Folk Art Education Sponsorship programme, 
we  continued  to  raise  awareness  of  and  to  preserve  the 
practice  of  Chinese  folk  art.  We  have  been  sponsoring 
students  in  Sichuan  and  Yunnan  provinces  to  learn  Yi 
Minority lacquerware painting, thangka painting and wool 
felting.In June 2019, we organised a UOB Heartbeat Art Exhibition 
that  featured  23  artworks  by  beneficiaries  from  the  UOB 
(China)’s  Folk  Art  Sponsorship  programme.  Some  of  the 
artworks were purchased by our colleagues and the proceeds 
were used to fund the Folk Art Sponsorship programme.We  also  invited  eight  beneficiaries  of  the  programme  to 
participate in the exhibition and other fundraising activities 
to help them gain exposure to art from different cultures.38图片说明：四川省汉源县马烈乡中心小学同学们穿上我行捐赠的新校服欢快
地跳了起来
Students at the Malie Village Central School, Hanyuan County in Sichuan Province 
in their new attire donated by UOB (China)为未来播种希望
本年度，大华银行（中国）继续开展一系列公益活动，为西部偏远
地区和有特殊需要的儿童筹措艺术和教育资源，助力他们及其家庭
实现梦想。Laying the foundation for the future
In 2019, we continued to support underprivileged children 
and those with special needs through our UOB Heartbeat 
programmes, providing them with art and education resources.2019 年，我行第八次举办标志性公益项目“爱心公益跑 / 行”，为
西部偏远山区和有特殊需要的儿童募集爱心善款。来自 12 个城市，超过 2,200 名大华银行（中国）的员工及其家属、
兄弟公司、业务及公益合作伙伴、客户以及微信粉丝，加入为爱“益”
起跑的队伍。同时还有超过 4,400 人次的社会公众，通过参与“大
华银行（中国）爱心公益跑”微信小程序，以运动捐步的形式贡献
爱心。2019 marked the eighth year of UOB (China)’s UOB Heartbeat 
Run/Walk, which is the Group’s flagship employee volunteerism 
and fundraising event. More than 2,200 people participated in 
the event across 12 cities in mainland China.We also invited our customers, associates from UOB Group, 
business and charity partners as well as our WeChat fans to 
join us to #keepthegoodgoing through UOB Heartbeat Run/
Walk activities.  More than 4,400 people joined the Walk for 
Good competition, an online game we ran using the WeChat 
mini programme, to donate their steps and to raise funds for the 
UOB Heartbeat programme.39管理层报告
2019 in Review图片说明：大华银行（中国）行长兼首席执行官符懋赞先生和第一财经公益
基金会监事，著名电视主持人阳子老师共同为到店顾客服务图片说明：云南省怒江州泸水县上江镇平安寨添富小学的同学认真听取公益
课程图片说明：大华银行（中国）商业银行部同事在上海虹口区彩虹笔儿童康健
发展中心陪同那里的孩子完成了一堂艺术疗愈课程图片说明：大华银行（中国）志愿者第四度回访片马彝族乡中心小学并为他
们送上捐赠的图书和生活学习用品Mr Peter Foo, President and Chief Executive Officer of UOB (China) (middle) 
and Ms Yang Zi, Supervisor of Yicai Foundation and TV Anchor of CBN TV (left) 
serving coffee to the visitors at the pop-up shop我行通过“爱心公益跑 / 行”，共募集善款约 46 万人民币。善款
通过新叶公益以及爱德基金会陆续用于 “温暖校服”、“鞋”助成长、
助学 / 助教金，公益图书馆以及“大华银行民间艺术特长班”多个
公益计划。全年，共有 14 家学校收到了公益物资和教育资源，受益
儿童近 3,500 人次。2019 年度，大华银行（中国）还把与第一财经公益基金会合作两年
的公益教育项目 “UOB 带我爱世界 : 小叮当的放映室”录播间搬到
了大华银行大厦，邀请员工和公众志愿者现场录制课程。这些课程
提供给云南偏远山区两所学校近 500 名学生，让山区的孩子收获知
识，感受世界。2019 年 6 月，大华银行（中国）爱心咖啡快闪店温暖开幕。快闪店
免费赠饮及现场义卖我行与云南省怒江州泸水县上江镇蛮英村福兴
咖啡种植合作社共同打造的大华银行（中国）爱心咖啡。两天内，
爱心咖啡快闪店共接待了超过 500 位的同事及公众，募集近万元的
善款，用于继续支持爱心公益咖啡项目。这是首个由外资银行推出的咖啡快闪店活动，也是我行探索可持续
发展公益模式的又一实践。目的在于帮助当地咖农打造可持续发展
的咖啡经济，从而实现对他们及其子女的公益承诺。The students from Ping’An Zhai School in Yunnan Province keeping their eyes on 
the interesting online coursesSeeing the big picture - our volunteer with a beneficiary at the Rainbow Pen Child 
Development Centre in Hongkou District of ShanghaiUOB (China) volunteers brought books and school supplies to the students at 
Central Primary School of Pian Ma Yi Minority Village in Sichuan Province.员工捐赠与志愿活动
2019 年，全行上下不仅为慈善捐款捐物，我行同事也为各类公益活
动贡献了 5,300 多个小时。每年，我行商业银行部的同事们都利用春节的契机，深入社区，开
展公益活动。 2019 年，他们来到上海虹口区彩虹笔儿童康健发展中
心，与那里有特殊背景的孩子共同完成了一堂艺术疗愈课程。同事们也积极响应人力资源部“走进校园，让爱延续”书籍捐赠活
动的号召，共募集 700 多本图书，以书籍循环利用的形式传递爱心，
传播知识。我行公益志愿者借公益回访的契机，将其捐赠给四川省
汉源县片马彝族乡中心小学。Volunteering for good 
At UOB (China), our colleagues regularly give back to the 
community.  In  2019,  they  contributed  more  than  5,300 
volunteer hours at community outreach programmes.As part of their annual Lunar New Year community outreach 
efforts, in 2019 our Commercial Banking colleagues celebrated 
the festival with children from underprivileged backgrounds 
or with special needs and had an art therapy course with 
them.Our  colleagues  also  answered  the  call  from  our  Human 
Resource team for book donations with more than 700 books 
given to the students at Central Primary School in Pian Ma Yi 
Minority Village, Hanyuan County, Sichuan Province.In total, UOB (China) raised RMB460,000 to help underprivileged 
and  special  needs  children  from  the  Amity  Foundation 
and  YesKids.  The  funds  were  used  to  purchase  school 
supplies and necessities, to provide financial assistance and 
scholarships  and  to  sponsor  the  UOB  Folk  Art  Education 
programme. Close to 3,500 students in 14 schools in West 
China have benefitted from the programmes.We  also  continued  our  UOB  Brings  the  World  to  Me 
programme,  a  joint  initiative  with  the  Yicai  Foundation 
to  provide  education  resources  and  online  courses  to 
two schools  in  the  remote  mountainous  areas of Yunnan 
province.  In  2019,  we  installed  a  live  video  booth  at  the 
ground  floor  of  UOB  Plaza,  our  headquarters  building  in 
Shanghai, for volunteers to conduct remote video courses at 
the booth for the school students. The courses helped close 
to 500 students learn more about the world beyond their 
community.In  June  2019,  we  opened  a  two-day  UOB  Heartbeat  pop-
up  coffee  shop  to  the  public  at  UOB  Plaza.  We  offered 
free  samples  of  the  UOB  Heartbeat  coffee,  produced  in 
collaboration with the Fuxing Coffee Cooperative, which is 
made up of 102 Lisu Minority families from Yunnan province. 
We  encouraged  visitors  to  buy  the  coffee  to  support 
UOB  Heartbeat  programme  beneficiaries.  More  than  500 
colleagues and customers patronised the coffee shop and 
raised close to RMB10,000 in support of the initiative.The pop-up coffee shop was the first of its kind launched by 
a foreign bank in China and our new approach to help local 
businesses thrive and to make long-lasting positive impact 
on the local community.4041管理层报告
2019 in Review图片说明：学生在“小小银行家”课堂上认真地研究国际货币
A student taking a closer look at a British Pound note图片说明：“你不捂财，财不留底，亲测 30 年后身价！”网络互动小游戏界面The interface of the online game图片说明：大华银行（中国）团队开展消费者权益保护宣传活动
Roadshows to promote consumer awareness on financial safety and security图片说明：大华银行（中国）消保委主席—大华银行（中国）行长兼首席执
行官符懋赞先生的《大咖话“消保”—让金融消费者更放心》增强金融教育，保护消费者权益
2019 年度，我行积极履行银行业社会责任，持续推动消费者金融教育。
在我行消费者权益保护委员会的统一领导下，全年共计开展了 129
场公众宣传教育活动，投入宣传资金约人民币 4.22 万元， 有 796 名
员工投身公众宣传教育活动中，受众消费者达 16,776 人次。尤其在“3·15”活动期间，我行自行设计的“你不捂财，财不留底，
亲测 30 年后身价！” 网络互动小游戏，传递了金融风险管理和责
任承担的知识，其寓教于乐的宣传形式也极大地提升了消费者的参
与热情，达到了良好的宣传效果，活动累计参与人数达到 1,252 位。同时，为响应国家的普惠金融宣传政策，我行于 11 月中旬，借公益
回访的契机，在片马乡彝族中心小学的学生间开展了我行标志的“小
小银行家“课程，以生动有趣的形式传授金融基础知识，加深其对
银行和货币的正确认识。Promoting financial literacy and enhancing consumer 
protection and fair dealing
In  2019,  we  continued  to  roll  out  financial  education 
programmes  and  activities  to  promote  consumer  rights 
protection and facilitate a strong fair dealing culture. We 
invested about RMB42,200 to host 129 educational activities 
with 796 colleagues and 16,776 customers taking part in these 
activities.For the World Consumer Rights Day on 15 March 2019, UOB 
(China)  developed  a  fun  and  interactive  online  game  on 
WeChat. By answering a few questions, participants could 
find  out  if  they  might  be  easy  targets  for  scammers.  We 
helped more than 1,252 financial consumers who took part 
in the game to understand their risk exposure and to raise 
consumer rights awareness.As part of our financial education efforts, we continued to 
teach children financial literacy, especially to those from 
underprivileged  backgrounds  and  with  special  needs.  In 
November 2019, our colleagues held a “Junior Banker” class 
for the students at Pian Ma Yi Minority School to learn about 
the basic knowledge of banking, saving and currencies.此外，为进一步夯实我行消费者权益保护机制，切实提升消费者权
益保护工作质效。2019 年度，我行通过创新思维，推出了一系列全
新举措，包括大咖话“消保”专栏和消费者权益保护积分体系。大咖话“消保”专栏每季度一期，邀请我行消费者权益保护委员会
其中一位成员，分享其对于消保理念的独到见解，并对我行日常消
保工作的开展进行有效指导。该专栏通过邮件和企业微信号文章形
式，向全行员工推送，以强化员工对于消保工作的重视，并对我行
消保文化的推广起到了积极的作用。消费者权益保护积分体系的设
立旨在更好地激发我行员工主动学习消保知识的兴趣，鼓励员工积
极参与各项消保宣传活动，推广“客户承诺”的服务理念。该积分
体系不仅可以使消保知识的学习更有趣味性，员工学习更轻松、更
能使员工通过完成各项不定期开展的消保任务和消保宣传活动，了
解并学习到最新的消保精神及相应知识。长期以来，品牌兼策略通讯与客户权益部为消费者权益保护专职部
门，负责管理及监督全行投诉。2019 年度，我行未发生无与消费者
保护相关的负面舆情和与消费者保护相关的诉讼事件，以及重大损
害消费者权益的投诉事件。Mr Peter Foo, President and Chief Executive Officer, UOB (China) shared his views 
on building customer confidence at the first UOB Consumer Protection Talk.To engage customers further on the topic of consumer rights 
protection, we developed new initiatives and programmes 
in  2019,  including  the Consumer Protection Talk  and  UOB 
Consumer Rights Protection Points System.Written by members of the UOB (China) Consumer Rights 
Protection  Committee, Consumer Protection Talk  is  a 
contributed  column  that  is  published  quarterly  through 
employee  email  and  our  internal  WeChat  channel.  The 
column aims to share insights and advice with our colleagues 
and to reinforce their understanding of fair dealing practices.We  also  launched  the  UOB  Consumer  Rights  Protection 
Points  System  to  encourage  colleagues  to  learn  more 
about consumer rights protection and best practices in an 
interesting  and  engaging  way.  It  is  an  online  system  that 
tracks and rewards our colleagues for actively participating 
in different consumer protection activities. By completing 
different tasks such as a monthly online quiz or attending 
seminars, our colleagues can collect points with which they 
can claim prizes.We have in place a dedicated team to address customers’ 
concerns and feedback and to resolve serious complaints 
in a fair and effective manner. In 2019, UOB (China) had no 
consumer  complaint  about  severe  violation  of  consumer 
rights. There was also no negative media coverage picked up 
in relation to consumer rights breaches.4243奖项及荣誉2019 中国优金融奖 —— 上海报业集团 , 界面新闻
• 年度外资商业银行2019 第一财经金融价值榜 —— 第一财经集团
• 年度“一带一路”金融服务机构2019 浙商最信赖金融机构 ——《浙商》
• 浙商最信赖一带一路服务外资银行2019 Triple A 资金、贸易、供应链及风险管理奖 —— 《财资》
• 最佳供应链奖（两项）
• 最佳服务提供商 —— 经销商融资2019  The  Most  Trusted  Financial  Institutions  by  Zhejiang 
Entrepreneurs - Zhe Shang
•  The most trusted foreign bank for the Belt and Road InitiativeThe Triple A Awards 2019, Treasury, Trade Supply Chain and 
Risk Management - The Asset 
•  Best Supply Chain solutions (Kohler case and Shell case)
•  Best Service Provider – Distribution Finance图片说明：大华银行（中国）二度蝉联第一财经授予的年度“一带一路”金
融服务机构奖，大华银行（中国）首席财务官朱轩先生（右三）代表我行领奖图片说明：大华银行（中国）在《财资》Triple A 资金、贸易、供应链及风险
管理奖评选中，斩获三个奖项。我行交易部主管袁泉先生出席颁奖典礼UOB won second Financial Institution of the Year for the Belt and Road Initiative 
award and Mr Brian Zhu, Chief Financial Officer of UOB (China) (third on the right) 
received the award presented by Yicai Media Group.UOB  (China)  won  three  awards  in  Treasury,  Trade  Supply  Chain  and  Risk 
Management at the Triple A Awards 2019. Mr Albert Yuan, Head of Transaction 
Banking attended the award ceremony to receive the awards.Awards and Accolades
Excellent Finance Awards - Shanghai United Media Group, 
Jiemian
•  Foreign Bank of the Year上海市支付清算系统运行维护工作先进单位 —— 中国人民银行上海
分行Advanced Unit Award Recognition for the Shanghai Municipal 
Clearing System - People’s Bank of China Shanghai上海支付清算优秀文章一等奖 —— 中国人民银行上海总部First Prize Award for Technology Article on Cloud Computing  
- People’s Bank of China, Shanghai2019 China Financial Value Ranking - Yicai Media Group 
•  Financial Institution of the Year for the Belt and Road Initiative2019 中国零售银行创新国际峰会 —— 泽方金融研究院
• 最佳消费者数字银行奖2019 亚太零售银行决策者峰会 —— 决策者金融研究院
• 零售银行数字银行品牌奖2019 中国年度最佳雇主 —— 智联招聘
• 最佳雇主 100 强
• 最受女性关注雇主2019 中国典范雇主 —— 前程无忧
• 典范雇主 100 强
• 组织创新典范2019 非凡雇主 —— 猎聘
• 上海极客非凡雇主2019 公益之申 —— 上海民政局及上海广播电视台
• 十佳公益伙伴企业2019 公益创新峰会 —— 苏宁公益基金会及爱德基金会
• 爱德致敬奖2019 年上海银行同业年度优秀案例奖 —— 上海市银行同业公会
• 最佳公关案例奖China Retail Banking Innovation Summit 2019 
•  Best Consumer Digital Banking AwardIFPI Asia-Pacific Retail Banking Summit 2019
•  Best Retail Digital Banking Brand2019 China Best Employer Awards - Zhaopin.com
•  Top 100 China Best Employers
•  Best Employers for female employeesExcellence China Awards 2019 - 51job.com
•  100 Employer Excellence of China 
•  Excellence in Organisational InnovationWork Different Awards 2019 - liepin.com
•  Different Geek Employer (Shanghai)2019 Shanghai Public Welfare Selection 
•  Top 10 Public Welfare Partner CompanyPhilanthropy Innovation Summit 2019
•  Amity Foundation Partnership Award2019 Yicai Foundation CSR Awards
•  Annual partnership award2019 Shanghai Banking Associations Annual Award 
•  Best Public Relations Case awards of Shanghai Banking Industry图片说明：大华银行（中国）个人金融服务部零售业务销售主管周波先生代
表我行出席 2019 亚太零售银行决策者峰会并领取零售银行数字银行品牌奖图片说明：大华银行（中国）东区主管兼上海分行行长张晓先生代表我行出
席第十二届《浙商》年会并领奖Mr Paul Zhou, Head of Sales and Distribution, Personal Financial Services of UOB 
(China) received the Best Retail Digital Bank Award on behalf of the Bank at Asia-
Pacific Retail Banking Summit 2019.Mr Andy Zhang, Head of East Region and General Manager of Shanghai Branch, UOB 
(China) (fifth from right) receiving the award from the ZheShang Magazine44图片说明：大华银行（中国）首席财务官朱轩先生（右二）代表我行出席
2019 公益之申颁奖典礼并领取年度十佳公益伙伴企业奖项图片说明：大华银行（中国）一举囊括人力资源领域三大平台的五大奖项，
其中包括连续第五年蝉联智联招聘“中国最佳雇主”百强这一奖项Mr Brian Zhu, Chief Financial Officer, UOB (China) (second from right) with other 
winners of the Top 10 Public Welfare Partner Company at 2019 Shanghai Public 
Welfare Selection award ceremonyUOB  (China)  received  five  human  resources  awards  from  three  prestigious 
organisations, including winning the Top 100 China Best Employer Award for the 
fifth year in a row.45公司治理
Corporate Governance大华银行（中国）始终坚持最高的公司治理标准并就此严格遵守《中
华人民共和国公司法》、《中华人民共和国商业银行法》、《中华
人民共和国外资银行管理条例》及其实施细则等相关监管要求。我行董事会及其下设专业委员会、监事、高级管理层按照相关法律
法规和《大华银行（中国）有限公司章程》（以下简称《公司章程》）
所赋予的职责，依法独立履行各自的权利与义务。关于董事与董事会a)    李振荣先生于 2019 年 4 月 30 日离任董事会。董事会现有五名董事，其中独立董事两名。董事会的人数、构成符
合监管要求和《公司章程》的规定。现任董事会成员名单及其职务
如下：UOB  (China)  is  committed  to  upholding  good  corporate 
governance and is guided by the following in this regard:
a)    the People’s Republic of China (PRC) Company Law;
b)   the PRC Commercial Bank Law;
c)    the PRC Regulations on Administration of Foreign-funded
     Banks and the Rules for Implementing the PRC Regulations 
     on Administration of Foreign-funded Banks; and
d)   other relevant regulatory requirements.The  Board  of  Directors  (Board),  Board  Committees,  the 
Supervisors and Senior Management perform their respective 
duties according to the laws and regulations of the country and 
the provisions in the Bank’s Articles of Association.Board of Directors
a)   Mr Francis Lee Chin Yong retired from the Board on 30      
     April 2019.Following  his  retirement,  the  Board  comprises  five 
members,  two  of  whom  are  independent  directors.  The 
size and composition of the Board comply with regulatory 
requirements  and  the  provisions  in  the  Bank’s  Articles  of 
Association. The five Board members are:姓名
Name性别
Gender年龄
Age职务
Position本届任期
Current Term of Office黄一宗
Wee Ee Cheong符懋赞
Peter Foo Moo Tan叶杨诗明
Christine Ip刘二飞
Liu Erh Fei吴玉华
Wu Yu Hua男
Male男
Male女
Female男
Male男
Male6757566161董事长/非执行非独立董事
Chairman/Non-executive and non-independent director2019年9月17日至2022年9月16日
From 17 September 2019 to 16 September 2022执行非独立董事(行长兼首席执行官)
Executive and non-independent director (President and Chief 
Executive Officer)2019年10月28日至2022年10月27日
From 28 October 2019 to 27 October 2022非执行非独立董事
Non-executive and non-independent director2017年7月12日至2020年7月11日
From 12 July 2017 to 11 July 2020独立非执行董事
Non-executive and independent director2019年11月16日至2022年11月15日
From 16 November 2019 to 15 November 2022独立非执行董事
Non-executive and independent director2018年8月29日至2021年6月5日
From 29 August 2018 to 5 June 202146董事会的主要职能如下：●  为银行指明战略方向，批准银行战略发展方案，批准银行的经营计划和年度预算及绩效考核指标；●  审核并监督银行的财务表现以及批准银行真实公允的财务决算方案；●  决定银行的资本负债结构；
●  设定股息分配方案以及宣告股息；
●  筹划董事会和高级管理层的继任事宜及银行的薪酬政策；
●  确保高效的管理团队；
●  批准银行的组织结构设置；
●  监督建立全面的、针对各种风险类型的风险管理政策、程序和基础设施(包括业务外包风险)；●  决定银行的风险结构并核准相关信贷审批限额；
●  审核并监督银行的风险管理、内部审计和合规部门职能的履行，并确保对其资源配置的充分性；●  评价行长/ 首席执行官以及高级管理层的工作表现；
●  制订适当的政策及程序以避免为自己谋取不正当利益的情况或其它利益冲突的产生；●  审查并核准银行的有关关联交易的控制体系；
●  建立公司文化、价值观和道德标准；
●  审查银行的信息披露政策并对所披露信息的真实性、准确性和完整性负责；●  向股东报告；及
●  履行股东授予的其他职权和法律、法规以及银行章程要求的其他职权。董事会每年召开四次定期会议，并在需要时召开临时董事会议。根据银行章程的规定，董事会还可通过传签的方式做出决议。2019 年，我行共召开董事会会议五次，其中定期董事会会议四次，
临时董事会会议一次，会议均达到法定最低出席人数。2019 年，我行董事会还通过传签的方式，做出了两项决议。会议的召集程序、出席人数、议事程序、表决程序、董事会决议的
作出程序及其内容等各方面均符合中华人民共和国有关法律法规和
《公司章程》的有关要求。所有董事会会议记录及传签决议由我行
董事会秘书保存。The main responsibilities of the Board are to:
•    provide strategic directions, approve strategic business initiatives,•and approve the business plans and annual budget and KPIs;
review and monitor the financial performance of the Bank, and 
approve true and fair financial statements;•  determine an appropriate capital/debt structure;
• 
•  perform  succession  planning  for  the  Board  and  Seniorset dividend policy and declare dividends;Management and review the remuneration framework;approve the organisational structure;•  put in place an effective management team;
• 
•  oversee the establishment of comprehensive risk management 
policies, processes and infrastructure to manage various types 
of risk (including outsourcing risk);•  determine  the  risk  profile  of  the  Bank  and  approve  credit•discretionary limits;
review and monitor the risk management, internal audit and 
compliance  functions  and  ensure  that  these  functions  are 
adequately resourced;•  evaluate the performance of the President and CEO and SeniorManagement;•• 
••  establish  appropriate  procedures  and  processes  to  avoid 
situations  that  may  give  rise  to  improper  personal  gains  or 
conflicts of interest;
review and approve the Bank’s system of controls relating to 
connected transactions;
set corporate culture, values and ethical standards;
review  the  Bank’s  information  disclosure  policy  and  be 
responsible for the authenticity, accuracy and integrity of the 
information disclosed;
report to the shareholder; and• 
•  exercise such other power as authorised by the shareholder 
and  perform  such  other  functions  as  required  by  the  laws, 
regulations and the Bank’s Articles of Association.The Board shall meet at least four times a year. Additional 
Board meetings shall be convened whenever necessary.The Bank’s Articles of Association also provide for the Board 
to make decisions by way of circular resolutions.In 2019, the Board held five meetings, including four regular 
meetings and one additional meeting. The quorum for each 
meeting was met.The Board passed two resolutions by way of circulation in 
2019.The procedures for convening a Board meeting, the quorum 
required for constituting the meeting, the proceedings at 
the meeting, and the procedures for voting and passing of 
resolutions were in compliance with the requirements of 
applicable PRC laws and regulations and the Bank’s Articles 
of Association. The minutes of all Board meetings and the 
circular resolutions are properly maintained by the Company 
Secretary.47公司治理
Corporate Governance关于董事会下设专业委员会大华银行（中国）董事会目前下设五个专业委员会，即：执行委员会、
关联交易控制委员会、审计委员会、提名及薪酬委员会和董事会风
险管理委员会。(1) 执行委员会
a.  委员会成员：黄一宗先生（主席）、符懋赞先生、叶杨诗明女士。b.  执行委员会的主要职能如下：
●   管理银行的营运，包括制定内部制度、业务发展策略，监督银行
     业务计划的执行，批准相关的信贷额度；及
●   处理除行长兼首席执行官及副行长以外的银行人力资源管理事项。c.  2019 年，执行委员会召开会议 4 次。(2) 关联交易控制委员会
a.  委员会成员：吴玉华（自 2019 年 4 月 30 日起担任主席），叶杨
诗明（自 2019 年 4 月 30 日起担任成员），刘二飞（自 2019 年 4 月
30 日起停止担任关联交易控制委员会主席，但仍继续担任关联交易
控制委员会成员）。b.  关联交易控制委员会的主要职能如下：
●   建立并执行关联交易管理制度；
●   管理关联交易并控制由此而生的风险；
●   审查一般关联交易；及
●   审核重大关联交易并提交董事会批准。c.  2019 年，关联交易控制委员共召开会议一次。d. 2019 年，关联交易控制委员还通过传签的方式，做出了一项决议。Board Committees
The Board has delegated specific functions to five Board 
Committees,  namely,  Executive  Committee  (EXCO), 
Connected Transactions Control Committee (CTCC), Audit 
Committee (AC), Nominating and Remuneration Committee 
(NRC) and Board Risk Management Committee (BRMC).(1) Executive Committee
a.    The  EXCO  members  are  Mr  Wee  Ee  Cheong  (Chairman),  MrPeter Foo Moo Tan and Mrs Christine Ip.b.  The EXCO oversees the following matters:
•the Bank’s business operations, including formulating internal 
policies and business strategies, monitoring the execution of 
business plans and approving relevant credit limits; and•  human resource matters, except for those pertaining to thePresident and CEO and Deputy President.c.  The EXCO held four meetings in 2019.(2)  Connected Transactions Control Committee
a.   The CTCC members are Mr Wu Yu Hua (Chairman with effect 
from  30  April  2019),  Mrs  Christine  Ip  (member  with  effect 
from 30 April 2019) and Mr Liu Erh Fei (who relinquished his 
chairmanship  on  30  April  2019  but  continued  to  serve  as  a 
member of the CTCC).b.  The CTCC’s main responsibilities are to:
•  establish the framework for managing connected transactions;
•  oversee the management of connected transactions and risks• 
•therein;
review non-material connected transactions; and
review and submit material connected transactions to the Board 
for approval.c.  The CTCC held one meeting in 2019.d.  The CTCC passed one resolution by way of circulation in 2019.(3) 审计委员会
a.  委员会成员：刘二飞先生 ( 主席 )、叶杨诗明女士、吴玉华先生。b.  审计委员会的主要职能为审议 / 监督以下相关事宜：
●   财务报告，内部、外部审计计划及报告；
●   内部会计控制及重大内部控制的充分性；
●   内部及外部审计的范围及结果；
●   有关会计准则或会计实务的质量及重大变化；
●   内部审计资源的充分性；
●   内部审计调查的重大发现；
●   批准外部审计费用；及
●   外部审计机构及内部审计部门负责人的提名。c.  2019 年，审计委员会共召开会议四次。(4) 提名及薪酬委员会
a.  委员会成员：刘二飞（自 2019 年 4 月 30 日起担任主席），黄一宗，
吴玉华（自 2019 年 4 月 30 日起停止担任提名及薪酬委员会主席，但
仍继续担任提名及薪酬委员会成员），叶杨诗明（自 2019 年 4 月 30
日起担任成员）。b.  提名及薪酬委员会的主要职能如下：
●   就董事会及其下属专业委员会推荐候选人；
●   设计董事、主要高级管理人员（包含行长兼首席执行官以及副行长）   
     的薪酬结构并报董事会批准；及
●   建立一套正规的机制以评价董事会的整体效率，董事会下设各委
     员会及董事的贡献以及行长兼首席执行官的表现。c.  2019 年，提名及薪酬委员会召开会议一次。•d.  2019 年，提名及薪酬委员会还通过传签的方式，做出了两项决议。(3) Audit Committee
a.   The AC members are Mr Liu Erh Fei (Chairman), Mrs ChristineIp and Mr Wu Yu Hua.b.  The AC’s main responsibilities are to review/oversee all matters••• 
•• 
• 
• 
•relating to:
financial statements, and internal and external audit plans and 
reports;
the  adequacy  of  internal  accounting  controls  and  material 
internal controls;
the scope and results of internal and external audits;
the quality of, and any significant change in, accounting policies 
or practices;
the adequacy of internal audit resources;
significant findings from internal audit investigations;
the approval of external auditor’s fees; and
the nomination of the external auditor and the head of the 
internal audit function.c.  The AC held four meetings in 2019.(4) Nominating and Remuneration Committee
a.    The  NRC  members  are  Mr  Liu  Erh  Fei  (Chairman  with  effect 
from 30 April 2019), Mr Wee Ee Cheong, Mr Wu Yu Hua (who 
relinquished his chairmanship on 30 April 2019 but continued 
to  serve  as  a  member  of  the  NRC)  and  Mrs  Christine  Ip 
(member with effect from 30 April 2019).b.  The NRC’s main responsibilities are to:
•recommend nominees for appointment to the Board and Board 
Committees;
recommend a framework for the remuneration of directors and 
key  senior  executives  (including  the  President  and  CEO  and 
Deputy President) for the Board’s approval; and•  put  in  place  a  system  for  assessing  the  effectiveness  of  the 
Board as a whole, the contribution of each Board Committee 
and director, and the performance of the President and CEO.c.  The NRC held one meeting in 2019.d.   The NRC passed two resolutions by way of circulation in 2019.4849公司治理
Corporate Governance
(5) 董事会风险管理委员会
a. 委员会成员：叶杨诗明女士（自 2019 年 4 月 30 日
    起担任主席）、吴玉华先生、刘二飞先生。b. 董事会风险管理委员会的主要职能如下：
●  审查银行的风险管理策略、政策和风险容忍度，并提交董事会批准；
●  确保风险管理体系健康独立，及其建立和运作符合董事会批准的   
    策略和政策；
●  在识别、衡量、监督和控制各种风险的过程中，审查和评估银行
     风险管理架构（包括框架、政策、方法、人力资源、程序、信息、
    基础设施和系统）的充分性和有效性；
●  审查管理层关于风险敞口、风险组合结构及其管理和风险监控的
     定期报告；及
●  定期向董事会报告并提示董事会注意负面风险事件或趋势。c.  2019 年，董事会风险管理委员会共召开会议四次。关于监事大华银行（中国）现有监事两名，现任监事黄祖耀博士及副监事詹
道存教授均由股东委派。监事的委任符合监管要求和《公司章程》
的规定。监事的职权主要包括：
●  检查银行财务和财务报表；
●  监督董事、高级管理人员的行为，以确保银行审慎经营，并在必 
     要时对董事、高级管理人员的不当行为予以纠正；
●  维护银行、股东及其他利益相关者特别是存款人的合法权益；及
●  法律、法规及银行章程规定的应由监事行使的其他职权和股东授
    予其行使的其他职权。2019 年，监事严格按照《中华人民共和国公司法》和《公司章程》
等规定，积极履行对董事会和高级管理层实施监督的职责。在履行
职责的过程中，监事接受并审阅有关本行经营及风险管理状况的常
规报告，对我行的经营情况、财务状况以及我行董事和高级管理人
员履行职责的合法合规性进行了有效地监督，同时会见了董事及高
级管理人员，并列席董事会会议。50(5) Board Risk Management Committee
a.     The  BRMC  members  are  Mrs  Christine  Ip  (Chairman  with 
effect from 30 April 2019), Mr Wu Yu Hua and Mr Liu Erh Fei.b.   The BRMC’s main responsibilities are to:
•review and recommend risk management strategies,  policies 
and risk tolerance of the Bank for the Board’s approval;•  oversee  the  establishment  and  operation  of  a  robust  and  
independent risk management system that is consistent with 
the strategies and policies approved by the Board;
review and assess the adequacy and effectiveness of the Bank’s 
risk management framework (including frameworks, policies, 
methodologies,  human  resources,  processes,  information, 
infrastructure  and  systems)  for  identifying,  measuring, 
monitoring and controlling various types of risks;
review  regular  management  reports  on  risk  exposures,  risk 
portfolio composition and the management and monitoring of 
such exposures and portfolio composition; and
report  to  the  Board  regularly  and  highlight  any  adverse  risk 
event or trend for the Board’s attention.•••c.  The BRMC held four meetings in 2019.Supervisors
The Bank has two Supervisors who were nominated by the 
shareholder and appointed in accordance with regulatory 
requirements and the Bank’s Articles of Association. They 
are Dr Wee Cho Yaw (Supervisor) and Prof Cham Tao Soon 
(Deputy Supervisor).The main responsibilities of the Supervisors include:
• 
•inspecting the accounts and financial statements of the Bank;
supervising the Board and Senior Management to ensure that 
the Bank is run in a prudent manner and that the Board and 
Senior Management take corrective actions where necessary;
safeguarding  the  lawful  rights  and  interests  of  the  Bank, 
the  shareholder  and  other  stakeholders,  particularly  the 
depositors; and••  exercising such other power and authority pursuant to the laws, 
regulations and the Bank’s Articles of Association, and as may be 
authorised by the shareholder.In 2019, the Supervisors duly discharged their responsibility 
of supervising the Board and Senior Management strictly, 
in  accordance  with  relevant  requirements,  including  the 
provisions under the PRC Company Law and in the Bank’s 
Articles of Association. In discharging their responsibility, 
the Supervisors received and reviewed regular reports on 
the Bank’s operations and risk management, and conducted 
supervision  of  the  operations  and  financial  position  of 
the Bank and the performance of the Directors and Senior 
Management. The Supervisors also met with directors and 
Senior Management, and attended Board meetings.独立董事履行职责情况2019 年度，我行设两名独立董事，分别为刘二飞先生及吴玉华先生。
其中，刘二飞先生担任董事会下设的提名及薪酬委员会和审计委员会
主席，以及关联交易控制委员会和董事会风险管理委员会成员。吴玉
华先生担任董事会下设的关联交易控制委员会主席，以及提名及薪酬
委员会、审计委员会和董事会风险管理委员会成员。报告期内，两位独立董事均勤勉尽责地履行了董事义务，认真审议了
各项议案。两位独立董事为董事会、董事会下设专业委员会切实履行
决策和监督职能发挥了积极作用，维护了我行的整体利益以及股东的
合法权益。Performance of Independent Directors
There were two independent directors on the Board in 2019, 
namely Mr Liu Erh Fei and Mr Wu Yu Hua. Mr Liu Erh Fei is 
the Chairman of the NRC and AC, as well as a member of 
the CTCC and BRMC. Mr Wu Yu Hua is the Chairman of the 
CTCC, as well as a member of the NRC, AC and BRMC.For  the  year  under  review,  both  independent  directors 
discharged  their  duties  diligently  and  responsibly.  They 
contributed to the decision-making and oversight by the 
Board and Board Committees and safeguarded the rights and 
overall interests of the Bank and the shareholder.(1) 2019年独立董事出席董事会会议（包括临时董事会会议）
的情况(1)  Independent  Directors’  Attendance  at  Board  Meetings(including Interim Board Meeting) in 2019独立董事姓名
Name of Independent Director应参加
（次）
No. of Board Meetings 
Held出席
（次）
No. of Board Meetings 
Attended缺席
（次）
Absent with
Apologies刘二飞
Liu Erh Fei吴玉华 
Wu Yu Hua555401备注
Remarks/因公务未能出席 2019 年 3 月 29 日
的董事会会议
Excused from Board meeting 
on  29  March  2019  due  to 
business commitments(2) 独立董事对我行有关事项提出异议的情况
2019 年，独立董事均未对我行本年度的议案事项提出异议。监事及董事知情权银行监事及董事能自由与管理层进行沟通并获取银行信息。银行就
财务信息、风险管理、运营管理等事项向监事及董事提供全面及时
的报告以便其做出进一步的会议讨论。银行监事及董事有权与公司
秘书进行沟通，从而了解最新的法规变化及公司治理方面的实施情
况。监事及董事在履行其职责时可以根据需要独立寻求专业意见，
由此产生的费用，将由银行承担。(2) Dissent of Independent Directors
In 2019, Management did not give cause for the independent 
directors to record their dissent on any matter.Supervisors’ and Directors’ Access to Information
The  Supervisors  and  directors  have  unfettered  access 
to  information  and  Management,  and  are  provided  with 
timely and comprehensive financial, risk management and 
operational reports to facilitate informed discussions during 
meetings. They also have access to the Company Secretary 
whose  responsibilities  include  advising  the  Supervisors 
and directors on regulatory changes and best practices in 
corporate governance. The Supervisors and directors may 
seek  independent  professional  advice  in  the  course  of 
discharging their duties at the Bank’s expense.51公司治理
Corporate Governance高级管理层成员构成 / Senior Management Structure姓名
Name职务 
Position性别
Sex出生年份 
Year of 
Birth任期起始
Assignment
Commencement最高学历 
Highest Academic Degree相关经验年限 
Relevant Years
of Experience符懋赞
FOO Moo Tan 
Peter刘可
LIU Ke
Jenny卢绍康
LO Siu-Hong
Rodney陈垙荣
TAN Kong Weng
Steven
朱轩
ZHU Xuan
Brian
郑濬
ZHENG Jun
Adaline黄莹
HUANG Ying
Christina袁泉
YUAN Quan
Albert张晓
ZHANG Xiao
Andy林培丰
LIM Pei Hong
Winston杨瑞琪
YANG Rui Qi
Mark郑伟仁
TEH Wee Jin杨健顺
YEOH Kian Soon 
Benedict洪晓燕
HONG Xiao Yan
Amy张飒
ZHANG Sa
Sarah王媛
WANG Yuan
Eliza52行长兼首席执行官
President and Chief Executive Officer男
Male19622016年12月
Dec 2016首席风险控制官
Chief Risk Officer女
Female19702016年1月
Jan 2016渠道及数字化部主管
Head, Channels and Digitalisation男
Male19672014年6月
Jun 2014首席技术官
Chief Information Officer首席财务官
Chief Financial Officer男
Male男
Male批发银行部（企业）主管
Head, Wholesales Banking - Corporate女
Female1976198019802016年6月
Jun 20162018年7月
Jul 20182018年2月
Feb 2018女
Female19722018年4月
Apr 2018商业银行部非南区主管
Head, Commercial 
Banking - Non - South China交易银行业务部主管
Head, Transaction Banking跨国企业银行部主管
Head, Multinational Corporate
兼任东区区域主管
East Regional Head
兼任上海分行行长
General Manager of Shanghai Branch个人金融服务部主管
Head, Personal Financial Services环球金融部主管
Head, Global Markets企业银行信贷部主管
Head, Corporate Credit商业银行信贷部主管
Head, Commercial Credit男
Male男
Male男
Male男
Male男
Male男
Male19761971197519731958197019772018年5月
May 20182014年9月
Sep 2014
2018年12月
Dec 2018
2018年12月
Dec 20182015年10月
Oct 20152016年10月
Oct 20162008年9月
Sep 20082014年7月
Jul 20142007年12月
Dec 2007人力资源部主管
Head, Human Resources女
Female内部审计部主管
Head, Internal Audit女
Female19722016年1月
Jan 2016法律与秘书部主管
Head, Legal and Secretariat女
Female19742007年12月
Dec 2007新加坡国立大学房地产管理学士荣誉学位
Bachelor of Science, Estate Management, Honours
National University of Singapore
特许金融分析师 
Chartered Financial Analyst 
新加坡南洋理工大学工商管理硕士
Master of Business Administration
Nanyang Technological University
乔治华盛顿大学
项目领导、管理及沟通；项目经理的合同管理课程
Project Leadership, Management and Communications 
Contracting for Project Managers
The George Washington University, USA
新加坡国立大学工商管理学士荣誉学位
Bachelor of Business Administration, Honours
National University of Singapore
复旦大学会计硕士
Master of Professional Accounting
Fudan University
上海交通大学国际金融学士
Bachelor of International Finance
Shanghai Jiao Tong University
英国加的夫大学商学院国际经济、金融与银行学硕士
Master of Science in International Economics Banking 
and Finance 
Cardiff University, UK日本立教大学经济学硕士
Master of Economics Rikkyo University, Japan上海财经大学-美国韦伯斯特大学工商管理硕士
Master of Business Administration
Shanghai University of Finance and Economics and 
Webster University新加坡南洋理工大学会计学士荣誉学位
Bachelor of Accountancy, Honours
Nanyang Technological University, Singapore澳大利亚墨尔本大学应用金融硕士
Master of Applied Finance 
The University of Melbourne, Australia新西兰大学商学士
Bachelor of Commerce 
University of Otago, New Zealand美国卡耐基梅隆大学理学学士
Bachelor of Science
Carnegie Mellon University, USA复旦大学工商管理硕士
Master of Business Administration
Fudan University美国纽约州立水牛城大学工商管理硕士
Master of Corporate Finance and Accounting
State University of New York at Buffalo, USA复旦大学工商管理硕士
Master of Business Administration 
Fudan University32242618171725162618183824222623女
Female19772011年5月
May 2011男
Male19732018年7月
Jul 2018美国南阿拉巴马州大学理学士
Bachelor of Science
University of South Alabama, USA男
Male1970熊大永
XIONG Da Yong合规部主管
Head, Compliance男
Male19702017年8月
Aug 2017王红霞
WANG Hong Xia 
Carol简宗正
CHIEN Chung Cheng 
Jerry个人信贷部主管
Head, Retail Credit女
Female19712016年12月
Dec 2016金融机构部主管
Head, Financial Institutions Group男
Male19622018年9月
Sep 2018付玥
FU Yue
Sabrina林联坚
LIM Lian Kian盛天有
SHING Tin Yau
Gordon范南鸿
FAN Nan Hong
Frank
陈亦昕
CHEN Yi-Hsi 
Lisa
周晓舟
ZHOU Xiao Zhou
Alan胡维
HU Wei
Tony品牌兼策略通讯与客户权益部主管
Head, Brand, Strategic 
Communications  
and Customer Advocacy北区区域主管
North Regional Head
兼任北京分行行长
General Manager of Beijing Branch大湾区（南中国区）区域主管
Greater Bay Area - South China Regional 
Head
兼任深圳分行行长
General Manager of Shenzhen Branch
兼任商业银行部南区主管
Head, Commercial Banking - South China
广州分行行长
General Manager of Guangzhou 
Branch厦门分行行长
General Manager of Xiamen Branch女
Female沈阳分行行长
General Manager of Shenyang Branch男
Male西区区域主管
West Regional Head
兼任成都分行行长
General Manager of Chengdu Branch男
Male男
Male男
Male王灏
WANG Hao天津分行行长
General Manager of Tianjin Branch叶艳
YE Yan
Beicy蔡福耀
CHUA Hock Yew
Alexander
黄魁彬
HUANG Kuei Ping
Patrick
郑有凡
ZHENG You Fan
Franco
苏润馨
SOO June Hsing
June林念
LIN Nian杭州分行行长
General Manager of Hangzhou Branch女
Female重庆分行行长
General Manager of Chongqing Branch男
Male苏州分行行长
General Manager of Suzhou Branch昆明分行行长
General Manager of Kunming Branch男
Male男
Male中山分行行长
General Manager of Zhongshan Branch女
Female上海自贸试验区支行行长 
Branch Manager of Shanghai Pilot Free 
Trade Zone Sub-Branch男
Male2019年3月
Mar 2019
2019年8月
Aug 2019
2019年3月
Mar 20192018年4月
Apr 20182018年7月
Jul 20182019年1月
Jan 20192018年12月
Dec 20182019年1月
Jan 20192018年12月
Dec 20182018年1月
Jan 20182018年1月
Jan 20182019年8月
Aug 20192019年8月
Aug 20192018年7月
Jul 201819761963198219781975197119721974197019751976陈晓苓
CHEN Xiao Ling上海徐家汇支行行长
Branch Manager of Xujiahui Sub-Branch女
Female19842018年6月
Jun 2018杜艳
DU Yan
Cherry李晶
LI Jing上海静安支行行长
Branch Manager of Jingan Sub-Branch女
Female北京燕莎中心支行行长
Branch Manager of Lufthansa Centre 
Sub-Branch女
Female197519862016年5月
May 20162019年10月
Oct 2019复旦大学金融学博士
Doctor of Finance  
Fudan University华东理工大学国际企业管理学士
Bachelor of International Business Management 
East China University of Science and Technology台湾大学工商管理硕士
Master of Business Administration
National Taiwan University英国利兹大学国际市场管理学硕士
Master of Science in International Marketing 
Management
University of Leeds, UK香港理工大学中国商贸管理理学硕士
Master of Science in China Business Studies
Hong Kong Polytechnic University香港浸会大学工商管理硕士
Master of Business Administration
Hong Kong Baptist University
美国南伊利诺伊大学卡本代尔分校工商管理硕士
Master of Business Administration
South Illinois University, Carbondale, USA
英国赫特福德大学会计金融学士
Bachelor of Accounting and Finance
University of Hertfordshire, UK法国国立科学技术与管理学院工商管理硕士
Master of Business Administration
Conservatoire National des Arts et Métiers, France南开大学经济学博士
Doctor of Public Finance
Nankai University 
哈尔滨工程大学电子工程学士
Bachelor of Electrical Engineer
Harbin Engineering University加拿大多伦多大学经济学学士荣誉学位
Bachelor of Commerce, Honours
University of Toronto, Canada
台湾中国文化大学会计学学士
Bachelor of Accounting
Chinese Culture University, Taiwan
云南大学会计管理学硕士
Master of Management in Accounting
Yunnan University
国立台湾大学财务金融硕士
Master of Business Administration
National Taiwan University
厦门大学国际贸易学硕士 
Master of Economics
Xiamen University
上海理工大学计算机科学与技术学士
Bachelor of Engineering (Science and Technology)
The University of Shanghai for Science and 
Technology
比利时联合商学院高级工商管理硕士
Master of Business Administration
United Business Institutes, Belgium
北京经济技术研修学院工商企业管理学士
Bachelor of Business Administration
Beijing Economic and Technological Research Institute162633192325233312191725221920191911171153公司治理
Corporate Governance
大华银行（中国）薪酬管理
薪酬政策与管理
大华银行（中国）薪酬政策的目标是提供具有市场竞争力的薪酬水
平使得银行能够合理并较为恰当地吸引、保留和激励与本行组织文
化、价值观相契合，与岗位胜任力相匹配的高素质人才。同时，该
薪酬政策体现了本行将薪酬支付与银行的业绩、长期利益以及风险
管控有效的结合。该薪酬政策适用于本行全体正式员工。根据本行薪酬政策的规定，员工的薪酬水平主要与集团、员工所在
的部门、及个人的绩效考核结果相挂钩。绩效考核的目标设置则体
现了本行对该部门及员工个人对于风险管控及长中短期绩效的要求
和期望。此外，本行从事合规和风险管理部门员工的薪酬水平与其
所监督的业务条线的绩效水平相独立。本行可变薪酬包括绩效奖金以及限制型股票，该支付方式可以合理
地将薪酬与本行的绩效以及与当前和未来的风险挂钩。根据中国银
行保险监督管理委员会颁布的《商业银行稳健薪酬监管指引》，本
行的高级管理人员以及对风险有重要影响岗位上的员工有部分可变
薪酬将被递延支付。根据本行最新的薪酬递延框架，主要高级管理
人员可变薪酬的递延比例为 50%，其他高级管理人员以及对风险有
重要影响岗位上的员工可变薪酬的递延比例为 40%，该递延支付工
具以限制型股票或递延奖金（如适用）的方式进行操作。为了更好地发挥薪酬在银行治理中的积极作用，大华银行（中国）
已成立了提名及薪酬委员会（以下简称“委员会”），该委员会由
四名董事组成，其中委员会主席由独立董事担任。报告期内，委员
会共召开会议 1 次。Remuneration
Remuneration Policy and Management
The  remuneration  policy  of  UOB  (China)  aims  to  provide 
competitive  remuneration  package  and  ensure  the  bank 
is  able  to  appropriately  attract,  retain  and  motivate  high 
quality talents who not only fit the Bank’s culture and share 
the same values but also meet the competencies that the 
positions  require.  Meanwhile,  the  remuneration  policy 
outlines  how  our  remuneration  entitlement  links  to  the 
Bank’s performance, long-term benefits and risk management. 
This  remuneration  policy  applies  to  all  of  the  full-time 
employees with the Bank.According to the Bank's remuneration policy, the employee’s 
salary is mainly linked to the individual performance, the 
Group’s and function’s performance. The performance target 
setting clearly shows the requirements and expectations of 
the Bank for risk management and long-term and short-term 
performance of the function and the individual. In addition, 
the compensation review of the employees who are taking 
compliance and risk management’s roles is independent with 
the performance of the business lines they supervise.The  Bank's  variable  pay  includes  performance  bonus  and 
restricted shares, which links the staff variable pay to the 
Bank's  performance  and  current  and  future  risks.  In  line 
with the Supervisory Guidelines on Sound Compensation in 
Commercial Banks  issued  by  China  Banking  and  Insurance 
Regulatory Commission, senior management and employees 
whose  roles  have  material  impacts  on  the  Bank’s  risk 
exposure would have a portion of their variable pay deferred. 
Under the Bank’s latest deferral framework, the 50% deferral 
rate  will  be  applied  to  the  variable  pay  for  key  senior 
managements whereas for other senior managements and 
employees whose roles have material impacts on the Bank’s 
risk exposure, the 40% deferral rate will be applied to the 
variable pay. This deferral will be in the form of deferred 
shares or deferred cash (where applicable).To  maintain  sound  corporate  governance  practices  and 
an  effective  remuneration  management,  UOB  (China)  has 
established  a  Nominating  and  Remuneration  Committee 
(NRC), which consists of four Board Directors. The chairman 
of  NRC  is  an  independent  director.  During  the  reporting 
period, the committee held one meeting in total.董事、监事和高级管理人员薪酬
2019 年本行向提名及薪酬委员会成员支付的董事费总计为人民币
769,500 元，向监事支付的监事费总计为人民币 400,000 元。截至 2019 年 12 月 31 日，本行共 27 名高级管理人员及对风险有重
要影响岗位上的员工，在 2019 年我行对其支付的薪酬总额为人民币
81,845,435 元，其中固定薪酬总额为人民币 47,694,548 元，可变薪酬
总额为人民币 34,150,887 元。本行目前无递延薪酬、留存薪酬的显性调整和隐性调整。内部控制和内部审计情况
内部控制
大华银行 ( 中国 ) 依据中国的政策法规和监管要求并结合大华银行集
团的具体实践，逐步建立、完善适应银行业务发展的内部控制体系
和制度，并确保其始终具备前瞻性和可实践性。我行董事会通过定期召开会议及相关内部委员会讨论，审阅各项风
险管理和分析报告、经营情况与预算执行情况报告和内部审计报告。
同时，结合同业经验交流等多种形式，全面评估银行内部控制体系。我行现行的内部控制体系和制度在改善内部控制环境方面体现了较
好的完整性、合理性和有效性，包括但不限于增强风险识别、监测
和评估能力、提高风险控制措施、完善信息交流与反馈机制、强化
监督评价与纠正机制。该内控体系和制度能够对国家法律法规和银
行规章制度的贯彻执行提供合理保证。Compensation for Board Directors, Supervisors and Senior 
Management
In 2019, the Bank paid a total of RMB769,500 director fee 
to the members of NRC, and paid a total of RMB400,000 
supervisor fee to the supervisors.As of 31 December 2019, there are total 27 senior executives 
and material risk takers whose roles have material impacts on 
the Bank’s risk exposure. The total compensation for these 
executives and material risk takers in 2019 was RMB81,845,435, 
including  RMB47,694,548  fixed  pay  and  RMB34,150,887 
variable pay.The Bank currently has no explicit and/or implicit adjustments 
to the deferred pay and/or remained pay.Internal Control and Internal Audit
Internal Control
UOB (China) has a well-established internal control system 
that adheres strictly to local regulators’ requirements and 
the Group’s policies and guidelines. This provides a robust 
framework and systems that enable the Bank to set strategic 
and practical objectives to support its business development.The Board assesses the Bank’s internal control framework and 
systems through the review of risk management reports and 
analysis, operational and budget reports, internal audit reports 
tabled at regular meetings, discussions at various internal 
committees and from the exchange of insights with industry 
peers.The integrity and effectiveness of the Bank’s internal control 
system is a result of the continuous improvement on the 
internal control environment, including, but not limited to, 
strengthening of risk identification/assessment, monitoring 
processes  and  risk  mitigation  techniques;  and  constantly 
reviewing communication/feedback as well as evaluation/
correction mechanisms. The internal control framework and 
systems are able to provide a reasonable level of assurance on 
the implementation of legal statutes and regulations.5455公司治理
Corporate Governance内部审计
我行设立了独立的审计监督机构——内部审计部。在职能层面，内
部审计部直接向董事会下设的审计委员会和大华银行集团审计部报
告工作；在行政层面，内部审计部向我行行长兼首席执行官汇报工
作。Audit
Internal  Audit  is  an  independent  function  that  reports 
functionally to the Audit Committee (AC) and Group Audit, 
while administratively reporting to the President and Chief 
Executive Officer (CEO) of UOB (China).内部审计部的主要职责为通过提供独立及客观的内部审计服务和其
他增值服务，协助董事会和管理层履行其法律和管理职责，旨在促
进我行运营活动中内部控制和风险管理的合理性和有效性。内部审
计部依据其系统的、严格的方法论，评估我行内部财务控制、运营
和合规控制的有效性，同时改善我行风险管理、控制与治理流程的
有效性，从而帮助我行实现其经营和管理目标。内部审计部遵照中国银行保险监督管理委员会颁布的《关于金融机
构内部审计的监管要求》，以及国际内部审计师协会制定的《准则
与指引》履行职责。每年度，内部审计部依据“风险导向”的审计
方法制定审计计划和审计频率，并根据对被审计对象的固有风险、
内控有效性的评估结果、管理层关注和监管热点确定审计项目的优
先次序以及审计范围。审计内容覆盖总行和分支机构的业务发展和
运营情况以及信息系统基础架构和应用程序的建设及运用情况等。内部审计根据经审计委员会批准的内部审计计划开展审计，同时按
照大华银行（中国）行长兼首席执行官、高级管理层或审计委员会
的要求开展专项审计或检查，向相关管理层、行长兼首席执行官、
审计委员会和董事会 ( 如适用 ) 汇报最终审计结果，并对重大审计
发现提请关注。此外，内部审计负责监督管理层针对内部审计、外
部审计以及监管机构所提出任何的需整改事项所采取的后续行动的
实施情况，对整改结果予以独立评价 , 并按季度向审计委员会和监
管部门上报跟踪结果。The primary role of Internal Audit is to assist the Board and 
management to discharge their legal and executive obligations 
by providing independent, objective assurance and value-
added services to improve the Bank’s operations. It helps the 
Bank to accomplish its objectives by having a systematic and 
disciplined approach to provide an independent assessment of 
the adequacy and effectiveness of the Bank’s internal financial 
controls, operational and compliance controls, and to improve 
the effectiveness of risk management, control and governance 
processes.It performs its internal audit function according to the Internal 
Audit Guidelines for Financial Institutions as governed by 
the China Banking and Insurance Regulatory Commission and 
Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing 
set by the Institute of Internal Auditors. Internal Audit adopts 
a risk-based prioritisation approach to develop its strategic 
audit  plan  to  determine  audit  frequency.  This  approach 
also adopts a comprehensive assessment of inherent risks, 
controls, management concerns and regulatory hotspots. The 
audit scope covers all businesses, operations as well as the 
infrastructure and applications of systems across UOB (China)’s 
headquarters and branches. The strategic plan is reviewed 
annually.Internal Audit conducts audits in accordance with the internal 
audit plan approved by the AC, and carry out investigations 
or reviews that may be ad hoc requested by the CEO, senior 
management or the AC. All internal audit reports are provided 
to relevant management, the CEO, the AC and the Board (where 
required) with significant issues highlighted. Internal Audit is 
responsible for closely monitoring and assessing the follow-up 
actions taken by the management team on the issues raised by 
Internal Audit, external audit and regulators, with reporting to 
the AC and the regulator on quarterly basis.风险管理
风险管理是业务战略中不可或缺的构成要素。我行的风险管理方法
着重于确保连续的财务稳健性和对我行股东权益和相关方利益的保
护，同时在快速变化的环境中敏捷地把握创造价值的商机。我们致
力于保持高标准的公司治理、健全的风险管理原则和业务实践，以
实现可持续的长期增长。我们不断努力实现最佳风险管理实践，以
支持我们战略目标的实现。2019 管理重点
在 2019 年，我们继续致力于推广和建设集团预想的风险文化，并在
全行范围内通过自上而下地层层强调和传达，加强了风险文化的沟
通。为了评估各项风险文化举措的成效，我们将这部分内容融入了
员工满意度调查，并根据金融稳定委员会 (FSB) 的指导原则对我行的
风险文化进行了自我评估。总体而言，评估结果显示我行采取了适
当的措施来推进预想的风险文化建设，维护我行特有的价值观，并
鼓励合理的风险承担行为。2019 年 1 月起，我行改用预期损失 (ES) 进行交易账户市场风险内部
计量和监控。与传统的风险价值 (VaR) 度量相比，预期损失包含了超
出设定置信度水平的极端损失，在历史模拟的过程中考虑了尾部损
失的分布，因此可以更准确地反映出风险水平。它可以反映在金融
市场压力情况下，风险价值度量所没有包含的极端损失。解决环境，社会和治理 (ESG) 问题仍然是大华银行所关注的一项重
点工作。我行充分认识到气候变化威胁不断上升  ，与集团政策保持
一致，我们也收紧了负责任融资政策 (Responsible Financing Policy) 
中与碳密集型行业有关的融资要求。风险管理
Risk ManagementRisk Mangement 
Managing risk is an integral part of our business strategy. Our 
risk management approach focuses on ensuring continued 
financial soundness and safeguarding the interests of our 
stakeholders, while remaining nimble to seize value-creating 
business opportunities in a fast changing environment. We 
are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate 
governance, sound risk management principles and business 
practices  to  achieve  sustainable  long-term  growth.  We 
continuously strive towards best risk management practices 
to support our strategic objectives.2019 Highlights
In 2019 we continued our efforts to promote and inculcate 
the Group’s desired risk culture, and stepped up risk culture 
communication  efforts  bankwide  to  emphasize  the  Tone 
from the Top and Tone from Above. To gauge the results of 
the various risk culture initiatives, we enhanced our Employee 
Engagement  Survey,  and  conducted  a  self-assessment 
exercise of our risk culture based on the Financial Stability 
Board guidelines. Overall the assessment indicated that the 
Bank had the appropriate practices in place to promote the 
desired risk culture, to espouse our values and to shape the 
right risk-taking behaviour.In  January  2019  we  implemented  Expected  Shortfall  (ES) 
limits monitoring. ES has the advantage over the traditional 
VaR measure in that it reflects the extreme losses beyond 
the set confidence level. It provides a more accurate picture 
of the risk as it takes into account the spread of the tail 
losses in the process of historical simulation. Thus it captures 
the large movements in the event of financial market stress 
which the VaR measure does not.Addressing  Environmental,  Social  and  Governance  (ESG) 
issues remained a key focus for UOB. In recognition of the 
rising threat posed by climate change and in line with the 
Group’s policy, we tightened the local Responsible Financing 
Policy in relation to the financing of carbon-intensive sectors.5657风险管理
Risk Management保持健全的风险文化
我们认为，强健的风险文化对银行业务的长期可持续发展至关重要。
它确保我们的决策和行动是在深思熟虑之后做出的，一言一行都以
客户为中心，并且确保我们不仅着眼于眼前的短期收益。具体而言，
风险文化是指与风险意识、风险承担和风险管理相关的准则、态度
和行为，以及影响风险决策的控制措施。大华银行风险文化深深植
根于我行的价值观。大华银行的风险文化理念
在大华银行为客户和利益相关方创造长期价值的过程中，风险管理
不可或缺。我们的风险文化基于以下四项原则：健全的风险治理，
确保风控有法可依；平衡的风控原则，确保业务稳中求进；明确的
职责分工，确保各方各司其责；有效的激励机制，确保管控始终如一。
每一项原则都是基于大华银行特有的价值观。通过在整个业务分支
中贯彻统一的风险文化，我们坚守对金融安全和稳定的承诺；坚持
为客户达成公平结果和提供恰如其分的支持；坚持可持续和审慎的
经营方式；在诚信、商业道德和自律的基础上取得业绩成果。Maintaining a Sound Risk Culture
We believe that a strong risk culture is vital to the long-term 
sustainability of the Bank’s business franchise. It ensures that 
our decisions and actions are considered and focused on our 
customers, and that we are not side-tracked by perceived 
short-term gains. Specifically, risk culture refers to the norms, 
attitudes and behaviours related to risk awareness, risk-taking 
and risk management, and controls that shape decisions on 
risks1. At UOB, our risk culture is based on our values.UOB’s Risk Culture Statement
Managing  risk  is  integral  to  how  UOB  creates  long-term 
value for our customers and stakeholders. Our risk culture 
is built on four principles: enforcing robust risk governance; 
balancing growth with stability; ensuring accountability for 
all our risk-based decisions and actions; and encouraging 
awareness, engagement and consistent behaviour in every 
employee.  Each  of  these  principles  is  based  on  UOB’s 
distinctive set of values that guides every action we take. In 
entrenching our risk culture further across our franchise, we 
uphold our commitment to financial safety and soundness; 
fair outcomes and appropriate support for our customers; 
sustainable  and  prudent  approach  to  business  and 
performance based on integrity, ethics and discipline.风险管理大华银行（中国）的风险管理结构如下图所示，旨在促进全行的风
险文化。在此架构下，各个风险和管理监督部门与业务和支持部门
合作，以识别风险并促进业务部门风险和控制的自我评估。Risk Management
UOB (China)’s risk management structure, as shown in the 
following diagram, underpins the Group’s risk culture. Under 
the structure, the various risk and control oversight functions 
work with business and support units to identify their risks 
and to facilitate their risk and control self-assessments.风险管理架构
Risk Management风险文化
Risk Culture、
架
框
理
治
险
风好
偏
和
策
政,
s
k
r
o
w
e
m
a
r
Fe
c
n
a
n
r
e
v
o
G
 
k
s
i
Re
t
i
t
e
p
p
A
d
n
a
 
s
ei
c
i
lo
P资本管理Capital Management战略计划和预算绩效管理Strategic Planning and BudgetingPerformance Management压力测试和情景分析Stress Testing and
Scenario Analysis资本，风险和回报最优化Capital, Risk and Return Optimisation风险识别Risk Identification风险计量Risk Assessment风险监控Risk Monitoring风险汇报Risk Reporting员工、流程、系统People, Processes, Systems58591　Guidelines, Corporate Governance Principles for Banks, Basel Committee 
on Banking Supervision, July 2015.风险管理
Risk Management我们的风险管理策略旨在融入我们的风险文化，以促进持续有效的
风险发现，并有效地预留足够的资本以应对业务活动和外部因素引
致的风险。高级管理委员会在经董事会及其委员会批准的范围内管
理风险。 我们制定了由政策、方法、工具和流程组成的管理框架，
帮助我们识别、计量、监控和管理银行面临的重大风险。这使我们
能够集中精力于银行业的基本理念，并为所有利益相关方创造长期
价值。银行的风险治理框架、政策和偏好为银行风险管理活动提供了总体
原则和指引。它们有助于资本管理、战略规划和预算编制以及绩效
管理的关键决策，以确保风险这一维度得到适当和充分考虑。我们
还在制定风险相关的关键绩效指标 (KPI) 时考虑了银行的风险偏好，
以进行绩效衡量。 这也用来在全行部门中树立风险管理理念和文化。我行的风险识别、计量、监控和报告流程根据所适用的风险治理
框架、政策和偏好予以实施。风险报告定期提交给管理层和董事会，
以便他们了解银行的风险状况。风险治理我行的风险管理责任始于董事会对银行治理结构进行的监督，旨在
确保银行的业务活动：
●       以安全有效的方式开展并符合高标准及健全的商业惯例；
●      符合我行整体业务战略和风险偏好；以及
●   受制于充分的风险管理和内部控制。在这方面，执行委员会 (EXCO) 和董事会风险管理委员会 (BRMC) 协
助董事会进行风险监督。董事会也对银行的整体风险偏好和维持的
风险资本水平进行审阅。在充分考虑风险和回报因素的前提下，由行长兼首席执行官 (CEO)
建立的各高级管理委员会负责协助进行业务决策。涉及的主要高级
管理委员会包括管理委员会 (MC)，资产负债委员会 (ALCO)，信贷委
员会 (ICCC)，操作风险管理委员会 (ORMC)，消费者权益保护委员会
(CRPC) 和风险与资本委员会 (RCC)。这些委员会还协助董事会针对具
体风险领域进行管理。Our risk management strategy is targeted at embedding our 
risk culture so as to facilitate ongoing effective risk discovery 
and to set aside  adequate capital efficiently to cater  for 
the risks arising from our business activities and external 
factors. Risks are managed within levels established by the 
senior management committees and approved by the Board 
and its committees. We have put in place a framework of 
policies, methodologies, tools and processes that will help 
us identify, measure, monitor and manage material risks faced 
by the Bank. This allows us to concentrate our efforts on the 
fundamentals of banking and to create long-term value for 
all our stakeholders.The Bank’s risk governance frameworks, policies and appetite 
provide  the  overarching  principles  and  guidance  for  the 
Bank’s risk management activities. They help to shape our 
key decisions for capital management, strategic planning and 
budgeting, and performance management to ensure that the 
risk dimension is appropriately and sufficiently considered. 
We also take into consideration the Bank’s risk appetite in 
the development of risk-related key performance indicators 
(KPIs) for performance measurement. This serves to embed 
a  risk  management  mindset  and  culture  throughout  the 
organisation.Our risk identification, assessment, monitoring and reporting 
processes  are  governed  by  applicable  risk  management 
frameworks, policies and appetites. Risk reports are regularly 
submitted  to  management  and  the  Board  to  keep  them 
apprised of the Bank’s risk profile.Risk Governance
UOB (China)’s responsibility for risk management starts at the 
top with our Board overseeing a governance structure that is 
designed to ensure that the Bank’s business activities are:
•    conducted in a safe and sound manner and in line withthe highest standards of professionalism;•    consistent with the Bank’s overall business strategy and•        subjected  to  adequate  risk  management  and  internalrisk appetite; andcontrols.高级管理层和高级管理委员会被授权对业务条线和 / 或宽泛的产品
条线设定风险偏好限额。风险管理也是银行内每个员工的责任。风险意识和职责通过一个既
定的框架嵌入到我们的企业文化中，确保对整个银行和各种类型的
风险开展有效管理。这是通过如下所示的“三道防线”组织控制结
构实现的：Senior management and the senior management committees 
are authorised to delegate risk appetite limits by business 
lines and/or broad product lines.Risk management is also the responsibility of every employee 
within  the  Bank.  Risk  awareness  and  accountability  are 
embedded in our culture through an established framework 
that ensures appropriate oversight and accountability for the 
effective management of risk throughout the Bank and across 
risk types. This is executed through an organisation control 
structure that provides three lines-of-defence as follows:风险治理结构
Risk Governance Structure董事会Board of Directors首席执行官CEO员
委
属
下
会
事
董s
e
e
t
t
im
m
o
C
d
r
a
o
B会
员
委
理
管
级
高s
e
e
t
t
im
m
o
Ctm
g
Mir
o
n
e
S· 审计委员会
      Audit  Committee· 董事会风险管理委员会
      Board Risk Management Committee· 提名及薪酬委员会
      Nominating and Remuneration Committee
· 执行委员会
      Executive Committee
· 关联交易控制委员会
      Connected Transactions Control Committee· 风险与资本委员会
      Risk & Capital Committee
· 信贷委员会
      In-Country Credit Committee
· 资产负债委员会
      Asset & Liability Committee
· 管理委员会
      Management Committee
· 客户权益保护委员会
      Consumer Rights Protection Committee
· 操作风险管理委员会
      Operational Risk Management CommitteeIn  this  regard,  the  Board  is  assisted  by  the  Executive 
Committee (EXCO) and Board Risk Management Committee 
(BRMC) in the oversight of risks. The Board also reviews the 
overall risk appetite and level of risk capital to maintain for 
the Bank.The CEO has established senior management committees to 
assist in making business decisions with due consideration to 
risks and returns. The main senior management committees 
involved  in  this  are  the  Management  Committee  (MC), 
Asset  and  Liability  Committee  (ALCO),  In-Country  Credit 
Committee (ICCC), Operational Risk Management Committee 
(ORMC), Consumer Rights Protection Committee (CRPC) and 
the Risk and Capital Committee (RCC). These committees 
also assist the Board committees in specific risk areas.业务部门Business Functions支持部门Support Functions风险控制部门首席风险官Risk Control FunctionsChief Risk Officer内部
审计Internal 
Audit外部
审计External 
Audit第一道防线  First line of defence第二道防线 Second line of defence第三道防线 Third line of defence6160风险管理
Risk Management第一道防线—风险所有者：
各业务及业务支持部门应对由于自身业务活动产生的风险承担首要
责任，实施并执行有效的风险管理控制措施。这包括充分的管理及
监督控制以确保合规，同时对控制失效、流程缺陷及非预期的突发
事件引起关注并作相应的报告。第二道防线—风险监督：
风险控制监督部门（风险管理部及合规部）和首席风险控制官为第
二道防线。风险控制监督部门协助银行实现平衡增长和稳定的发展策略，制定
风险政策、框架、风险偏好和限额，而业务部门在此范围内进行业
务操作。风险控制监督部门也负责对银行整体风险概况进行独立的
评审及监控，并向相关的高级管理委员会报告显著薄弱环节及风险
问题。风险控制监督部门具有的独立性保证了必要的查核和平衡。第三道防线—独立审计：
我行的内部审计以及聘请的外部审计对第一道防线和第二道防线在
内的所有方面执行风险导向型审计，向行长兼首席执行官、审计委
员会及董事会独立提供对风险管理及控制结构、政策、框架、系统
和流程的有效性的保障。First line of defence - The Risk Owner: 
The business and business support functions have primary 
responsibility  for  implementing  and  executing  effective 
controls  for  the  management  of  risks  arising  from  their 
business  activities.  This  includes  establishing  adequate 
managerial and supervisory controls to ensure compliance 
with approved risk policies, appetite, limits and controls and 
to highlight control breakdowns, inadequacy of processes 
and unexpected risk events.Second line of defence - Risk Oversight: 
The risk and control oversight functions (Risk Management 
and Compliance Function), and the Chief Risk Officer (CRO) 
provide the second line of defence.The risk and control oversight functions support the Bank’s 
strategy of balancing growth with stability by establishing risk 
policies, frameworks, risk appetite and limits within which 
the business functions must operate. The risk and control 
oversight functions are also responsible for the independent 
review and monitoring of the Bank’s risk profile and highlight 
any significant vulnerabilities and risk issues to the respective 
management committees.The independence of risk and control oversight functions 
from business functions ensures the necessary checks and 
balances.Third line of defence - Independent Audit: 
The Bank’s internal and external auditors conduct risk-based 
audits covering all aspects of the first and second lines of 
defence to provide independent assurance to the CEO, Audit 
Committee and the Board, on the effectiveness of the risk 
management  and  control  structure,  policies,  frameworks, 
systems and processes.风险偏好大华银行（中国）已经建立了风险偏好框架，确定银行力求实现业
务目标过程中能够并且愿意承担的风险总量。建立风险偏好框架的
目的不是为了限制承担风险，而是确保银行的风险状况保持在明确
界定和可容忍的范围内。该框架是根据以下主要标准制定的：●   与相应利益相关方的相关性，具有适当的细分级别；
●   实用、一致和易于沟通和实施的指标；
●   与我行业务战略的关键要素保持一致；
●   可分析证明和可衡量的指标。风险偏好定义了关键领域的适当阈值和限额，包括但不限于信贷风
险、国家风险、市场风险、流动性风险、操作风险和声誉风险。我
们承受风险的方式是聚焦于被充分了解且具有完备风险管理能力的
各项业务。通过这种方法，我们的目标是尽量控制盈余波动和集中
度风险，确保银行良好的信用评级、充足的资本和资金来源得到
保持。这使我们能够在不断变化的经济条件和周期中，成为我们客
户的稳定的合作伙伴。我行的风险偏好框架和风险偏好每年定期更新并由董事会批准通过。
银行管理层负责风险偏好限额的管控并将遵循情况上报董事会及董
事会风险管理委员会知悉。Risk Appetite
UOB  (China)  has  established  a  risk  appetite  framework 
to  define  the  amount  of  risk  we  are  able  and  willing  to 
take in pursuit of its business objectives. The objective of 
establishing a risk appetite framework is not to limit risk-
taking  but  to  ensure  that  the  Bank’s  risk  profile  remains 
within well-defined and tolerable boundaries. The framework 
was formulated based on the following key criteria:•    relevance to respective stakeholders, with appropriatelevels of granularity;•    practical, consistent and easy to understand metrics forcommunication and implementation;•     alignment to key elements of the Bank’s business strategy;
•     analytically substantiated and measureable metrics.The risk appetite defines suitable thresholds and limits across 
key areas including but not limited to credit risk, country 
risk, market risk, liquidity risk, operational risk and reputation 
risk. Our risk-taking approach is focused on businesses which 
we understand and are well-equipped to manage the risk 
involved. Through this approach, we aim to limit earnings 
volatility and concentration risk and ensure that our high 
credit rating, strong capital and funding base remain intact. 
This  allows  us  to  be  a  stable  partner  of  our  customers 
through changing economic conditions and cycles.UOB  (China)’s  risk  appetite  framework  and  risk  appetite 
are  reviewed  and  approved  annually  by  the  Board.  The 
Management  monitors  and  reports  the  risk  limits  to  the 
Board and BRMC.6263风险管理
Risk Management
重大风险大华银行（中国）的业务战略、产品、客户组合和经营环境使我们
面临金融和非金融风险。识别和监控重大风险是本行风险管理方法
的组成部分。它促使我们能够对整个银行进行适当的评估并积极采
取缓释措施降低这些风险。下表列举了可能影响成功实现银行战略
目标的重大风险：Material Risks
UOB (China)’s business strategies, products, customer profiles 
and operating environment expose us to a number of financial 
and non-financial risks. Identifying and monitoring key risks are 
integral to the Bank’s approach to risk management. It enables 
us to make proper assessment and to mitigate these risks 
proactively across the Bank. The table below lists the key risks 
which could impact the success of achieving the Bank’s strategic 
objectives.重大风险定义Material Risk Definition风险管控How risk is managed信贷风险信贷风险是由于借款人或交易对手无法履行到期的金融或偿付义务
而引致的损失风险。本行制定了信贷风险管理框架、政策、风险模型和风
险限额进行风险管控。Credit RiskThe risk of loss arising from any failure by a borrower or counterparty 
to meet its financial obligations when such obligations are due.Through the Bank's credit risk management framework, 
policies,  probability  of  default/loss  given  default/
exposure at default/portfolio models and limits.市场风险市场风险指由于相关资产的市场价格变动（例如利率，汇率，股票
价格，商品价格和信贷息差的变化）给银行造成损失的风险。本行制定了市场风险管理框架、政策、风险价值模型
和风险限额进行风险管控。Market RiskThe risk of loss to the Bank from movements in the market rates or 
prices (such as changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity 
prices, commodity prices and credit spreads) of the underlying asset.Through the Bank's market risk management framework, 
policies, Value-at-Risk models and limits.流动性风险 流动性风险是指银行无法获得充足资金或无法以合理成本获得充足资金以应对资产增长或到期债务支付的风险。Liquidity Risk The risk that arises from the Bank's inability to meet its obligations orfund increases in assets as they fall due.本行制定了资产负债风险管理框架进行风险管控，包
含各项政策和风险限额。Through  the  Bank's  balance  sheet  risk  management 
framework, liquidity risk management policies, ratios 
and limits.操作风险操作风险是指由不完善或有问题的内部程序、员工和信息科技系统，
以及外部事件所造成损失的风险。操作风险涵盖银行营运风险、欺
诈风险、法律风险、监管合规风险、声誉风险、外包风险与科技风险， 
但不包括战略风险和业务风险。本行制定了操作风险管理框架，政策、管理工具进行
操作风险管控，包括风险识别和控制自我评估、关键
操作风险指标、操作风险事件报告、管理风险意识和
情景分析。Operational 
RiskThe risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, 
people  and  systems  or  from  external  events.  Potential  loss  may 
be in the form of financial loss or other damage, for example, loss 
of  reputation  and  public  confidence  that  will  impact  the  Bank's 
creditability and ability to transact, to maintain liquidity and to obtain 
new business. This includes banking operations risk, fraud risk, legal 
risk, outsourcing risk, regulatory risk, reputational risk and technology 
risk but excludes strategic and business risks.Through the respective risk management frameworks, 
policies, and operational risk management programmes 
including  Key  Risk  and  Control  Self-Assessments, 
Key Operational Risk Indicators, Incident Reporting, 
Management Risk Awareness and Scenario Analysis.策略风险策略风险指由于不利的战略决策，决策执行不当或对行业，经济或
科技变化缺乏响应而对收益，资本或声誉造成的当前或预期的负面
影响。根据整体风险治理框架进行策略风险管控，并由高级
管理层委员会负责监督。Strategic Risk The  current  or  prospective  negative  impact  on  earnings,  capital 
or  reputation  arising  from  adverse  strategic  decisions,  improper 
implementation of decisions or a lack of responsiveness to industry, 
economic or technological changes.Through  overall  risk  governance  framework  and 
oversight by senior management committees.重大风险定义Material Risk Definition风险管控How risk is managed业务风险业务风险指由于业务参数的变化，例如业务量，利润和成本的变化
而对收益或资本产生不利影响。根据整体风险治理框架进行业务风险管控，并由高级
管理层委员会负责监督。Business RiskThe adverse impact on earnings or capital arising from changes in 
business parameters such as volumes, margins and costs.Through  overall  risk  governance  framework  and 
oversight by senior management committees.模型风险Model Risk模型风险指由于以下原因所引起的风险：
·使用无法准确评估市场价格的模型，或不是市场主流的模型
   （定价模型）；
·无法准确地估计未来损失的可能性或大小（风险度量模型）。This is the risk arising from:
·   the use of a model which cannot accurately evaluate market prices, or    
    which is not a mainstream model in the market (pricing models); or
·   inaccurately estimating the probability or magnitude of future losses 
    (risk measurement models).通过各项重大风险类型下的定量模型管理要求进行管
理。Managed under the respective material risk types for 
which there is a quantitative model.大华银行（中国）采纳了巴塞尔框架要求并遵守中国银行及保险业
监督管理委员会 (CBIRC) 对商业银行的资本管理措施。我们继续采用
谨慎和具有前瞻性的方法在不断演化的监管环境中寻求发展，强调
在健全风险管理原则指导下取得可持续业务回报。我行已采用内部资本充足评估程序 (ICAAP)，持续评估支持我们业务
所需的资本金额。 我们定期审阅内部资本充足评估程序，以确保在
考虑所有重大风险的情况下银行保持良好资本规模。我行通过开展
压力测试确定在压力条件下的资本充足率。UOB (China) has adopted the Basel Framework and observes 
capital  management  measures  on  commercial  banks  by 
China Banking and Insurance Regulatory Commission (CBIRC). 
We continue to adopt a prudent and proactive approach 
in  navigating  the  evolving  regulatory  landscape,  with 
emphasis on sound risk management principles in delivering 
sustainable returns.We  have  adopted  Internal  Capital  Adequacy  Assessment 
Process (ICAAP) to assess on an ongoing basis the amount of 
capital necessary to support our activities. We review the 
ICAAP periodically to ensure that the Bank remains well-
capitalised after considering all material risks. Stress testing 
is conducted to determine capital adequacy under stressed 
conditions.6465风险管理
Risk Management
信贷风险信贷风险是由于借款人或交易对手无法履行到期的金融或偿付义务
而引致的损失风险。信贷风险是我行开展银行业务所面临的最大单
一风险，通常源自对于零售、公司或者机构借款人的贷款业务或其
他借贷相关承诺。资金和资本市场操作及投资业务同样也会使银行
面临交易对手和发行人的信用风险。我行采用全面的信贷风险评估方法并确保信贷风险管理成为企业风
险管理的有机组成部分，完整的信贷风险管理框架下清晰地定义了
信贷风险识别、衡量和管理相关的政策和流程。信贷风险治理和组织
风险与资本委员会和信贷委员会是监督信贷风险的主要管理层委员
会，并协助行长兼首席执行官和董事会层级委员会管理银行的整体
信贷风险敞口。上述委员会商讨所有与信贷相关的问题，包括信贷
风险管理框架、政策、程序、基础设施、方法和系统等。其中信贷
委员会还负责在董事会设定的风险偏好和执行委员会授权的审批限
额内批准对借款人和 / 或交易对手的信贷额度和敞口。风险与资本
委员会经会商通过信贷风险管理框架并提交董事会批准，并且承担
审阅和评估银行信贷组合和信贷风险状况的职责。信贷风险管理部门负责所有信贷风险相关的报告、分析和管理，向
银行相关的管理层委员会提交涵盖各业务部门的详实的信贷风险报
告（涉及信贷组合行业、产品和国别风险等）。借鉴大华银行集团
的经验，同时满足本地监管和业务需求，该部门负责起草全行性的
信贷政策和指引，并专注于在审慎、一致和有效的信贷风险管理框
架下促进业务发展。Credit Risk
Credit risk is the risk of loss arising from any failure by a 
borrower or counterparty to meet its financial obligations 
when  such  obligations  are  due.  Credit  risk  is  the  single 
largest risk that we face in our core business as a commercial 
bank, arising primarily from loans and other lending-related 
commitments to retail, corporate and institutional borrowers. 
Treasury and capital market operations, and investments also 
expose the Bank to counterparty and issuer credit risks.The  Bank  adopts  a  holistic  approach  towards  assessing 
credit risk and ensures that managing credit risk is part of an 
integrated approach to enterprise risk management. Integral 
to the management of credit risk is a framework that clearly 
defines policies and processes relating to the identification, 
measurement  and  management  of  credit  risk,  within  the 
Bank.Credit Risk Governance and Organisation
The  RCC  and  ICCC  are  the  key  oversight  committees  for 
credit risk and support the CEO and board level committees 
in  managing  the  Bank’s  overall  credit  risk  exposures.  The 
committees serve as executive forum for discussions on all 
credit-related issues including the credit risk management 
framework, policies, processes, infrastructure, methodologies 
and systems. Particularly, ICCC holds the responsibility of 
approving credit facilities and exposures to borrowers and/or 
counterparties of the Bank within the Risk Appetite Limit set 
by the Board and the discretionary limits delegated by the 
EXCO. RCC discusses and proposes credit risk management 
framework for the Board approval, and reviews and assesses 
the Bank’s credit portfolios and credit risk profiles.The Credit Risk Management Division under Risk Management 
Function develops bank-wide credit policies and guidelines 
and focuses on facilitating business development within a 
framework that results in prudent, consistent and efficient 
credit risk management. It is responsible for the reporting, 
analysis and management of all elements of credit risk to 
relevant  management  committees,  with  comprehensive 
credit risk reports cover business segments at the overall 
portfolio  level  by  various  dimensions  including  industry, 
product and country.66风险政策和程序我们建立了信贷政策和流程来管理以下关键领域的信贷风险：独立的信贷批准
为保持信贷审批程序的健全和独立性，我行的信贷业务发起与审批
职能相分离。信贷审批授权根据审批官的经验、资历和工作记录予
以委任，所有审批官接受信贷政策和信贷接纳标准的指导。信贷政
策和信贷接纳标准将周期性进行审阅和必要更新，以确保同银行发
展策略和业务环境的连续性和适用性。内部评级系统
我行采用内部评级模型来支持信贷风险评估并按照评级对信贷敞口
进行归类。内部评级的使用贯穿于信贷审批、信贷复审和监测、信
贷压力测试、限额设定、定价和催收等领域。相关模型在运用前须
通过独立的验证，以确保它们符合需要。为了持续监测评级模型的
可靠性，所有模型须由其拥有部门进行年度审阅，以确保所选取的
风险因素和假设继续与相应的信贷组合保持适用性。交易对手信用风险
与贷款业务在其合约期限内风险敞口按名义金额计量不同，交易对
手信用风险敞口随市场变动因素而波动。我行的交易对手信用风险
的计量是将当前盯市价值加上反映潜在风险暴露 (PFE) 的附加因子
(add-on)。潜在风险暴露因子是对交易存续期内风险暴露上限的估
计，被用于外汇 / 衍生品交易的限额设立及内部风险管理。外汇、衍生品和证券融资交易的风险敞口通过签订国际掉期及衍生
工具协会 (ISDA) 主协议或中国银行间市场金融衍生产品交易主协议
(NAFMII) 得到缓释。此类安排允许在发生违约事件时以净额结算方
式平盘未了结的交易，从而将我行的风险敞口降到最低。我行还建
立了管控对手方错向风险 (Wrong Way Risk) 的政策，以辨别和管理
交易对手方信贷敞口同其违约风险呈现正相关的情形。此外，衍生品交易尽可能通过中央交易对手进行结算，以通过多边
净额结算和日保证金程序进一步减少交易对手信用风险敞口。Credit Risk Policies and Processes
We have established credit policies and processes to manage 
credit risk in the following key areas:Credit Approval Process
Credit  origination  and  approval  functions  are  clearly 
segregated to maintain the independence and integrity of 
the  credit  approval  process.  Credit  approval  authority  is 
delegated to officers based on their experience, seniority 
and track record. All credit approval officers are guided by 
credit policies and credit acceptance guidelines which are 
periodically reviewed to ensure their continued relevance to 
the Bank’s business strategy and the business environment.Internal Rating System
The  Bank  employs  internal  rating  models  to  support  the 
assessment of credit risk and the assignment of exposures to 
rating grades or pools. Internal ratings are used pervasively 
by the Bank in the areas of credit approval, credit review and 
monitoring, credit stress testing, limits setting, pricing and 
collections. The models are independently validated before 
they are implemented to ensure they are fit for the purpose. 
The robustness of these rating models is monitored on an 
ongoing basis, and all models are subject to annual reviews 
conducted by model owners to ascertain that the chosen risk 
factors and assumptions continue to remain relevant for the 
respective portfolios.Counterparty Credit Risk
Unlike normal lending risk where the notional amount at risk 
can be determined with a high degree of certainty during 
the contractual period, counterparty credit risk exposure 
fluctuates with market variables. Counterparty credit risk is 
measured as the sum of current mark-to-market value and 
an appropriate add-on factor for potential future exposure 
(PFE). The PFE factor is an estimate of the maximum credit 
exposure over the remaining life of the foreign exchange 
(FX) / derivative transaction and is used for limit setting and 
internal risk management.Exposures arising from FX, derivatives and securities financing 
transactions  are  typically  mitigated  through  agreements 
such as the International Swaps and Derivatives Association 
(ISDA) Master Agreements, and the National Association of 
Financial Market Institutional Investors (NAFMII) Agreement.  
Such  agreements  help  to  minimise  credit  exposure  by 
allowing us to offset what we owe to counterparty against 
what is due from that counterparty in the event of a default. 
The Bank has also established policies to address wrong-way 
risk, i.e. where the counterparty credit exposure is positively 
correlated with its default risk.In  addition,  derivative  transactions  are  cleared  through 
Central  Counterparties,  where  possible,  to  reduce 
counterparty credit exposure further through multilateral 
netting and the daily margining process.67风险管理
Risk Management信贷集中度风险
信贷集中度风险可能源于单笔的大额信贷敞口或互相关联的多笔敞
口。该类风险通过设定不同种类的限额进行管理，包括集团、特定
组合、借款人、行业和国别等，通常限定为银行资本额的一定百分
比。定期评估出现的风险并展望行业和各国前景也被用来提供前瞻
性观点，以衡量对我行业务敞口组合可能的影响。信贷压力测试
信贷压力测试是信贷资产组合管理的一个重要组成部分。它包括确
定可能对我行信贷风险产生不利影响的事件或未来经济状况变化，
以及评估我行在压力情景中管理金融资源的能力。与此同时，我行
亦会根据监管要求的压力情景和实验参数对指定的贷款组合实施信
贷压力测试或敏感性分析，以评估压力情况下的贷款质量和资本状
况。信贷风险缓释
我行的潜在信贷损失可以通过一系列的增信手段如抵押品、衍生的
交易安排、担保和净额结算等起到风险缓释目的。作为一项基本信
贷原则，我行不允许仅凭建立抵押安排即给予客户授信，所有授信
必须基于对借款人信用水平、还款来源和偿付能力的综合考量。尽可能地获取抵押品是作为风险缓释的一种手段，抵押品的价值会
被定期监控。价值评估频度则取决于抵押品的种类、可变现性和价
值波动程度。我行接受抵押品的主要种类包括房地产、现金和银行
担保。内部管理和认定时会适当的扣减抵押品的市场价值，以反映
抵押品的质量、波动性和可变现性等基本质素。当向中小型企业提供信贷支持时，通常要求客户的主要股东或董事
提供个人担保以显示并确保其对借款人的承诺和支持。信贷监控和应对管理
银行定期监测和分析信贷敞口、信贷组合表现和可能影响整体信用
水平的新显现的风险。董事会和高级管理层通过各类内部风险报告
获得信贷风险趋势的更新情况。我行还建立了信贷早期预警机制，
由业务部门向高级管理层上报发生信贷质量下降客户的情况，以便
商讨应对策略并采取行动。Credit Concentration Risk
Credit  concentration  risk  may  arise  from  a  single  large 
exposure  or  from  multiple  exposures  that  are  closely 
correlated.  This  is  managed  by  setting  exposure  limits 
on  obligor  groups,  portfolios,  borrowers,  industries  and 
countries, generally expressed as a percentage of the Bank’s 
eligible  capital  base.  Regular  assessments  of  emerging 
risks  and  reviews  of  industry  and  country  outlooks  are 
also  performed  to  provide  a  forward-looking  view  on 
developments that could impact the Bank’s portfolio.Credit Stress Test
Credit stress-testing is an integral part of the Bank’s credit 
portfolio  management  process.  It  involves  identifying 
possible events or future changes in economic conditions 
that  may  have  unfavorable  effects  on  the  Bank’s  credit 
exposures,  and  assessing  the  Bank’s  ability  to  manage  its 
financial resources through adverse circumstances. Likewise, 
business  credit  stress  test  or  sensitivity  analysis  are  also 
conducted to assess designated loan portfolio’s quality and 
capital impact under the stress scenario and test parameters 
prescribed by the Regulator.Credit Risk Mitigation
Our potential credit losses are mitigated through a variety 
of instruments such as collateral, derivatives, guarantees and 
netting arrangements. The Bank would generally not grant 
credit facilities solely on the basis of the collateral provided. 
All requests for credit facilities are assessed based on the 
credit  standing,    source  of  repayment  and  debt  servicing 
ability of the borrower.The Bank takes collateral whenever possible to mitigate the 
credit risk assumed. The value of the collateral is monitored 
periodically and the frequency of valuation would depend 
on the type, liquidity and volatility of the collateral value. 
The collaterals are mostly in the form of properties, cash, 
and bank guarantees. Appropriate haircuts that reflect the 
underlying nature of the collaterals, quality, volatility and 
liquidity would be applied to the market value of collaterals 
as appropriate.When extending credit facilities to small-and-medium-sized 
enterprises (SMEs), we also often take personal guarantees 
to  secure  the  moral  commitment  from  the  principal 
shareholders and directors.Credit Monitoring and Remedial Management
The  Bank  regularly  monitors  credit  exposures,  portfolio 
performance and emerging risks that may impact our credit 
risk profile. The Board and senior mmanagement are updated 
on credit trends through internal risk reports. An early alert 
process  has  also  been  put  in  place  whereby  vulnerable 
accounts  are  escalated  by  the  business  units  to  senior 
management for discussion on account strategy and remedial 
actions.逾期账户管理
我行密切监控逾期账户，并以此作为信贷质量的一个重要指示标志。
当客户未能按时还本和 / 或付息时，相应账户即构成逾期。所有逾
期账户包括循环授信的信用额度超限都将由业务部门和风险管理部
门按规定程序进行密切监控和管理。当认为必要时，此类账户的信
贷复审间隔将被缩短。贷款分类、损失准备和不良贷款核销
我行依据借款人以正常经营收入归还信贷的能力对信贷资产组合进
行分类，并设立独立的信贷复审职能以强化信贷风险分类的合理性。所有对客户的贷款和垫付款项按照银保监会的指引要求被分为“正
常”、“关注”和“不良”贷款，其中不良贷款被进一步分为“次级”、
“可疑”或“损失”类。任何逾期或循环授信项下发生额度超限达
到 90 天以上的账户将被自动归为“不良”类。另外，任何因显现不
足并可能对按目前合约还款产生负面影响的账户可被归为“不良”类。
会计处理上对于信贷损失的定义同监管定义总体上一致。提高不良类账户的分类至“正常”或“关注”时，需以借款人的还
款能力、现金流和财务状况的全面评估作为支持依据。银行应确信
一旦被解除不良分类后，该账户将不会在短期内再次被降级。当借款人财务状况恶化或已无力按原定的计划还款，银行会考虑对
贷款进行重组（通常是做出非商业考量的安排）。重组贷款须被划
归为“不良”类，并根据银行基于重组条款对借款人的财务状况和
还款能力的评估结果给予适当的信贷分类评级。贷款损失准备的计提严格按照有关监管指引并谨慎考量包括不良账
户项下抵押品变现收入在内的不良信贷未来清收处置价值。当回收
的前景被认为较差或是其它可能的还款来源均被追索受偿后，该账
户才被准予核销。Delinquency Monitoring
We monitor closely the delinquency of borrowing accounts 
as  it  is  a  key  indicator  of  credit  quality.  An  account  is 
considered as delinquent when payment has not received 
on the payment due date. All delinquent accounts including 
revolving  credit  facilities  with  limit  excesses,  are  closely 
monitored and managed through a disciplined process by 
officers from business units and risk management function. 
Where appropriate, such accounts are also subject to more 
frequent credit reviews.Classification, Provisioning and Write-Off
We classify our credit portfolios according to the borrower’s 
ability to repay the credit facility from their normal source 
of income. There is an independent credit review process to 
ensure the appropriateness of loan grading and classification.All borrowing accounts are categorised into ‘Pass’, ‘Special 
Mention’ or ‘Non-Performing’. ‘Non-Performing’ or impaired 
accounts are further sub-divided into ‘Substandard’, ‘Doubtful’ 
or ‘Loss’ in accordance with the guidelines of CBIRC. Any 
account  which  is  delinquent  (or  in  excess  for  a  revolving 
credit facility) for more than 90 days will be categorised 
automatically as ‘Non-Performing’. In addition, any account 
that exhibits weaknesses which are likely to adversely affect 
repayment on existing terms may be categorised as ‘Non-
Performing’. The accounting definition of impaired and the 
regulatory definition of default are generally aligned.Upgrading and declassification of a Non-Performing account 
to ‘Pass’ or ‘Special Mention’ status must be supported by 
a credit assessment of the repayment capability, cash flows 
and  financial  position  of  the  borrower.  We  must  also  be 
satisfied that once the account is declassified, the account is 
unlikely to be classified again in the near future.A credit facility is restructured when a bank grants concessions 
(usually  non-commercial)  to  a  borrower  because  of 
deterioration in the financial position of the borrower or 
the inability of the borrower to meet the original repayment 
schedule.A  restructured  account  is  categorised  as  ‘Non-
Performing’ and placed on the appropriate classified grade 
based on our assessment of the financial condition of the 
borrower and the ability of the borrower to repay under the 
restructured terms.Loan loss provision is made in line with CBIRC guidelines 
after  careful  consideration  of  the  future  recovery  value 
including liquidation of collateral of the Non-Performing 
account.  A  non-performing  account  is  written  off  when 
the prospect of a recovery is considered poor or when all 
feasible avenues of recovery have been exhausted.6869风险管理
Risk Management特殊资产管理和零售信贷管理
特殊资产管理部门 (SAM) 和零售信贷管理部门分别对银行的企业和
住房抵押贷款不良资产组合进行重组、重整或清收。对不良账户进
行主动管理的首要目标是尽量使这些账户恢复财务健康并转回相应
业务部门进行管理；或决定退出该业务关系，最大限度地争取不良
贷款的回收。Special Asset Management and Retail Credit Management
Special Asset Management and Retail Credit Management 
are  independent  units  that  respectively  manage  the 
restructuring,  workout  and  recovery  of  Bank’s  corporate 
and retail mortgage non-performing portfolios. The primary 
objectives are to nurse non-performing accounts back to 
financial  health  whenever  possible  for  transfer  back  to 
business unit for management; and to maximise recovery of 
such accounts that the Bank intends to exit.贷款风险分类及不良贷款情况                                  
Loans by Classification贷款分类
 Loans by Classiﬁcation正常 Pass关注 Special Mention次级 Substandard可疑 Doubtful损失 Loss合计 Total人民币（百万元）
Outstanding (RMB' m)35,310.4214.5224.0--35,748.9占比
(%)98.8%0.6%0.6%--100%（贷款行业分布和区域分布信息请参见我行审计财务报告的相关注释部分）
(For Loans by Industry Distribution and by Geographical Region, please refer to relevant note of the audited financial report)2019 年底，不良贷款合计人民币 2.24 亿元 , 占贷款总额比例为 0.6%。
拨备覆盖率 348.5%，贷款拨备率为 2.2%，分别高于 140% 及 2.1% 的
最低监管要求。As at 31 December 2019, total non-performing loans amounted 
to RMB224 million, representing 0.6 per cent of the Bank’s total 
loans portfolio. Non-performing loan coverage ratio was 348.5 
per cent and provision-to-loan ratio was 2.2 per cent, above 
the regulatory minimum requirement of 140 per cent and 2.1 per 
cent respectively.市场风险
市场风险是指由于相关资产的市场汇率或价格（例如利率、汇率、
股票价格、商品价格和信贷利差）的变动给银行造成损失的风险。
市场风险由我行资产负债委员会通过每月例会定期审阅市场风险相
关事务，并为市场风险管理提供指引。风险管理部下属的市场风险管理及监控部门和资产负债风险管理部
门负责提交有关市场风险敞口的独立报告，供董事会风险管理委员
会、风险与资本委员会和资产负债委员会审阅。我行市场风险管理框架包含市场风险政策、程序、控制和适当的风
险管理授权以及市场风险限额。我行采用的估值方法符合市场惯
例，并且估值与风险模型得到独立验证。此外，推出新产品与服务
前，会通过产品或服务开发流程确保包括市场风险在内的相关风险
得到充分识别和监控管理。我行开展交易账户业务的主要目标之一是提供以客户为中心的产品
和服务，支持客户的业务和对冲需求。我行不断审阅和强化衍生产
品风险管理，以确保合理控制业务复杂性。我行市场风险偏好是考虑了银行整体要求及业务部门目标利润的平
衡的结果，同时也将银行的资本状况考虑其中。从而保证即使在极
端压力条件下，银行依旧保持资本充足。我行将市场风险偏好转化
为风险限额并授权给业务部门管理，业务部门在限额下开展相关业
务所承受的风险与其产生的利润相匹配。我行市场风险偏好涵盖所有交易账户敞口和非交易账户的外汇敞口。
我行市场风险主要源于代客交易行为，结构化产品挂钩的交易行为
以及自营交易等交易组合中利率、汇率和商品价格的变化。Market Risk
Market  risk  refers  to  the  risk  of  loss  to  the  Bank  from 
movements in the market rates or prices (such as changes 
in  interest  rates,  foreign  exchange  rates,  equity  prices, 
commodity prices and credit spreads) of the underlying asset. 
Market risk is governed by the ALCO, which meets monthly 
to review and provide directions on market risk matters.The Market Risk Management and Product Control (MRPC) 
and  Balance  Sheet  Risk  Management  (BSRM)  Divisions 
support  the  BRMC,  RCC  and  ALCO  with  independent 
assessment of the market risk profile of the Bank.The  Bank’s  market  risk  framework  comprises  market  risk 
policies, practices, and the control structure with appropriate 
delegation of authority and market risk limits. We employ 
valuation  methodologies  that  are  in  line  with  sound 
market  practices  and  validate  valuation  and  risk  models 
independently. In addition, the Product/Service Programme 
process ensures that different risks, including market risk 
issues,  are  identified  and  adequately  addressed  prior  to 
launch.One of  the Bank’s main objectives in undertaking trading 
activities  is  to  provide  customer-centric  products  and 
services  to  support  our  customers’  business  and  hedging 
needs. We continually review and enhance our management 
of derivatives risks to ensure that the complexities of the 
business are appropriately controlled.Our overall market risk appetite is balanced with targeted 
revenue  at  the  Bank  and  business  unit  levels  and  takes 
into account the capital position of the Bank. This ensures 
that the Bank remains well-capitalised, even under stress 
conditions. The  risk appetite is translated into risk limits 
that are delegated to business units. These risk limits have 
proportional returns that are commensurate with the risks 
taken.Market  risk  appetite  is  provided  for  all  trading  exposure 
within the Bank and the Bank’s non-trading FX exposures. 
The  Bank  is  mainly  exposed  to  market  risk  in  its  trading 
portfolios that arises from changes in interest rates, FX rates 
and commodity prices from the Bank’s client-driven market 
making and product structuring activities as well as trading 
activities.7071风险管理
Risk Management标准法计量
我行目前使用标准法计量监管要求下的市场风险资本，使用内部模
型法计量和监控交易账户市场风险。内部模型法计量
我行在内部市场风险管理中采用 97.5% 置信区间下测算日预期损失
的历史模拟法。该方法认为诸如利率、汇率和商品价格等风险因子
在未来的变动特征可以通过观察其历史数据得到。预期损失是尾部
损失分布的均值，认为通常计量结果大于某一置信区间点计量的潜
在损失。Standardised Approach
The Bank currently adopts the Standardised Approach for the 
calculation of regulatory market risk capital but uses Internal 
Models Approach to measure and control trading market 
risks.Internal Model Approach
The Bank estimates a daily Expected Shortfall (ES) within 
a 97.5 per cent confidence interval over a one-day holding 
period, using the historical simulation method, as a control 
for market risk. The method assumes that possible future 
changes  in  market  rates  may  be  implied  by  observed 
historical market movements. ES is the average portfolio loss, 
assuming that the loss is greater than the specified percentile 
of the loss distribution.大华银行（中国）- 交易账簿回溯测试（假设日损益与 99% 置信间下的风险价值比较）UOB (China) - Backtest Chart(Hypo PL vs. VaR@ 99% CI) 31 Dec 2018-31 Dec 2019假设损益
Hypo PL
风险价值
VaR交易账簿回溯测试结果：
Trading Backtesting Chart损益（人民币 千）
P/L (CNY'K)15,00012,0009,0006,0003,0000(3,000)(6,000)(9,000)(12,000)(15,000)(18,000)(21,000)(24,000)31-Dec-1831-Jan-1928-Feb-1931-Mar-1930-Apr-1931-May-1930-Jun-1931-Jul-1931-Aug-1930-Sep-1931-Oct-1930-Nov-1931-Dec-1972在回溯测试中，我行采用历史模拟法 99% 置信区间下的日风险价值。
风险价值是计量潜在损失的统计测量方法，通过回溯测试比较交易
账户的损益与风险价值的差异来验证该方法的可靠性。通过对回溯
测试结果的分析，找出是否是因为模型缺陷或市场波动导致其中不
符合预期的结果，所有回溯测试反映的问题及解决方案都将汇报至
资产负债委员会。为弥补预期损失测量法的不足，我行借助压力测试及情景测试，找
出银行在面对某些极端情景时可能出现的损失。这些测试为主动市
场风险管理提供了早期预警信息，以应对可能的极端损失。我行 2019 年 12 月 31 日的预期损失为人民币 680 万元。银行账户利率风险银行帐户利率风险指由于利率的不利变动可能导致银行经济价值或
者整体收益遭受损失的风险。在开展银行业务的过程中，我们致力于满足客户对于不同利率结构
和期限的产品的需求和偏好。资产负债的重定价期限和其他特征的
错配使其对利率变动有不同的敏感度，而随着利率水平和收益率曲
线的变动，将导致银行的经济价值的变动或者收益的减少。利率风
险管理的主要目标就是在多样化的经济环境中，通过确保银行有充
足、稳定、可靠的净利息收入来保护并促进银行资本和经济价值的
增长。资产负债委员会负责总揽利率风险管理框架的有效性，包括对政策 ,
流程和限额的批准。资产负债风险管理部协助资产负债委员会负责
监测银行账户下的利率风险。各种应用的行为模型均依据相应的政
策经过独立的验证和管理。拟采用对冲工具和策略对银行帐户利率
风险进行管理须遵循银行制定的银行帐户利率风险管理政策，并定
期重新审阅。通过对相应委员会批准对业务部门的授权，以及设定
的限额和警戒线的密切监控，确保银行保持谨慎并对潜在的风险进
行讨论并及时采取行动。我行每月定期通过动态模拟的方法计量银行帐户利率风险。通过使
用集成流动性风险和银行账户利率风险管理的内部统一风险平台确
保及时的风险报告，并进行全面的资产负债风险管理。For back testing purpose, the Bank uses daily VaR within a 99 per 
cent confidence interval over a one-day holding period, based 
on the historical simulation method. As VaR is the statistical 
measure for potential losses, the VaR measures are backtested 
against profit and loss of the trading book to validate the 
robustness  of  the  methodology.  The  backtesting  process 
analyses whether the exceptions are due to model deficiencies 
or market volatility. All backtest exceptions are tabled at the 
ALCO with recommended actions and resolutions.To complement the ES measure, we perform stress and scenario 
tests to identify the Bank’s vulnerability to event risk. These 
tests serve to provide early warnings of plausible extreme losses 
for which proactive management of market risk is taken.The Bank’s daily ES on 31 December 2019 was RMB6.8 million.Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Book
Interest rate risk in the banking book (IRRBB) is defined as the 
risk of potential loss of capital or reduction in earnings due 
to changes in the interest rates environment.In  the  course  of  our  core  banking  activities,  the  bank 
strives  to  meet  customers’  demands  and  preferences  for 
products with various interest rate structures and maturities. 
Mismatches  in  repricing  and  other  characteristics  of 
assets and liabilities give rise to sensitivity to interest rate 
movements. As interest rates and yield curves change over 
time, these mismatches may result in a change in the bank's 
economic  net  worth  and/or  a  decline  in  earnings.  Our 
primary objective of managing IRRBB is to protect and to 
enhance capital or economic net worth through adequate, 
stable and reliable growth in net interest earnings under a 
broad range of possible economic conditions.The ALCO maintains oversight of the effectiveness of the 
interest rate risk management structure including approval 
of policies, controls and limits. The BSRM Division supports 
the ALCO in monitoring the interest rate risk profile of the 
banking book. Behavioural models used are independently 
validated and governed by approved policy. Management 
and mitigation of IRRBB through hedging instruments and 
activities are governed by the Bank's IRRBB policies which 
are  subject  to  regular  review.  Monitoring  of  positions 
against mandates, limits and triggers approved by relevant 
committees and delegated to relevant business units provide 
alerts for timely discussions to control potential risks.The  Bank’s  banking  book  interest  rate  risk  exposure  is 
quantified  on  a  monthly  basis  using  dynamic  simulation 
techniques .The Bank employs a holistic approach towards 
balance sheet risk management, using an in-house enterprise 
risk management system to integrate liquidity risk and IRRBB 
into a single platform for the Bank’s reporting in a timely 
manner.73风险管理
Risk Management利率敏感度受重新定价期限、币种，隐含的期权和基准利率的影响。
隐含的期权包括贷款的提前还款和定期存款的提取支取。我行采用
基于经济价值的方法计量银行账户表内外业务的未来重定价现金流
的净现值，来揭示利率变动对银行经济价值潜在影响；同时采用基
于净利息的方法来计量未来利率走势和可能的业务变化对银行净利
息收入的潜在影响。相比于短期错配，长期的利率错配对利率头寸
经济价值的影响更大，而短期的利率错配对净利息收入的影响更大。
模拟利率变动的情景包括巴塞尔委员会定义的六种标准化利率冲击
情景，包括收益率曲线上移、下移和形状变化。我行亦采用定量分析方法定期进行利率风险压力测试 , 以确保银行
有足够的资本金应付因为利率的大幅波动对银行资产负债表的影响。
同时，该压力测试也用于对极端情况下可能发生高额损失的早期预
警并促进银行在快速波动的市场环境下积极地管理利率风险。由于利率，汇率和股权价格变化带来交易账户下的风险通过市场风
险管理框架来进行管理和监控。Interest  rate  risk  varies  with  different  repricing  periods, 
currencies and embedded options and interest rate basis. 
Embedded options may be in the form of loan prepayment 
and time deposit early withdrawal. In Economic Value of 
Equity (EVE) sensitivity simulations, we compute the present 
value for repricing cash flows, with the focus on changes in 
EVE under different interest rate scenarios. This economic 
perspective  measures  interest  rate  risks  across  the  full 
maturity profile of the balance sheet, including off-balance 
sheet items. We estimate the potential effects of interest 
rate  changes  on  Net  Interest  Income  (NII)  by  simulating 
the possible future course of interest rates and expected 
changes in business activities over time. Mismatches in the 
longer  tenor  will  experience  greater  change  in  EVE  than 
similar positions in the shorter tenor while mismatches in 
the shorter tenor will have a greater impact on NII. Interest 
rate scenarios used in simulations include the six standard 
scenarios prescribed by Basel including positive and negative 
tilt scenarios.We  also  perform  stress  tests  regularly  to  determine  the 
adequacy  of  capital  in  meeting  the  impact  of  extreme 
interest rate movements on the balance sheet. Such tests 
are also performed to provide early warnings of potential 
extreme losses, facilitating the proactive management of 
interest rate risks in an environment of rapid financial market 
changes.The risks arising from the trading book, such as interest rates, 
FX rates and equity prices are managed and controlled under 
the market risk framework.流动性风险流动性风险是指商业银行无法以合理成本及时获得充足资金，用于
偿付到期债务、履行其他支付义务和满足正常业务开展的其他资金
需求的风险。我行保持充足的流动性以保障银行日常运营的开展，
满足存款的提款和贷款的发放，投资新项目以及支付到期的借款。
因此，流动性管理的主旨在于应付银行确定的及不可确定的资金需
求。我行流动性风险管理是在完整的风险管理框架下进行的，包含经由
资产负债委员会批准的各项政策、控制流程、风险限额。这些政策、
控制流程及风险限额确保我行在不同的市场环境下有充足的资金以
应对流动性需求。这些措施包括通过多样化资金的来源及其期限将
资金集中度降至最小，以及持有高流动性债券。我行在流动性风险管理方面采取保守立场，持续的吸收核心存款，
严格遵守流动性风险额度，保留充足的流动资产等措施来防范可能
出现的资金短缺。我行通过主动分散存款的来源，以确保成本效率的均衡，资金的持
续可获得以及资金来源的多样化。确保流动性重要的因素还包括通
过竞争性定价，积极主动地管理银行的核心存款以及维护客户的信
心。和监管当局的流动性风险管理框架一致，我行通过预测银行现金流
来度量和管理流动性风险，现金流的预测是基于“正常业务情景”
和“压力情景”来进行。我行设置现金流错配限额来控制银行流动
性风险敞口的同时，还采用流动性早期预警指标和警戒线以揭示可
能出现的危机状况。我行的流动性比率和优质流动性资产充足率均
高于监管要求的水平。我行在建立的流动性应急计划中运用一系列的预警指标揭示可能发
生的流动性危机。在该应急计划中，我行通过设立危机上报流程及
包括融资、沟通等危机处理策略来减少流动性危机所带来的负面影
响。Liquidity Risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that arises from the bank’s inability 
to meet its obligations or fund increases in assets as they fall 
due. The Bank maintains sufficient liquidity to fund our day-
to-day operations, to meet deposit withdrawals and loan 
disbursements, to participate in new investments, and to 
repay borrowings. Hence, liquidity is managed in a manner to 
address known as well as unanticipated cash funding needs.Liquidity risk is managed in accordance with a framework of 
policies, controls and limits approved by the ALCO. These 
policies, controls and limits enable the Bank to monitor and 
to manage liquidity risk to ensure that sufficient sources 
of  funds are available over a range of market conditions. 
These include minimising excessive funding concentrations 
by diversifying the sources and terms of funding as well as 
maintaining a portfolio of high quality and marketable debt 
securities.We  take  a  conservative  stance  in  the  Bank’s  liquidity 
management by continuing to gather core deposits, ensuring 
that liquidity limits are strictly adhered to and that there are 
adequate liquid assets to meet cash shortfall.The distribution of deposits is managed actively to ensure a 
balance between cost effectiveness, continued accessibility 
to funds and diversification of funding sources. Important 
factors  in  ensuring  liquidity  are  competitive  pricing, 
proactive management of the Bank’s core deposits and the 
maintenance of customer confidence.Our liquidity risk is aligned with the regulatory liquidity risk 
management framework and is measured and managed on 
a projected cash flow basis. The bank is monitored under 
business-as-usual and stress scenarios. Cash flow mismatch 
limits are established to limit the bank’s liquidity exposure. 
We  also  employ  liquidity  early  warning  indicators  and 
trigger points to signal possible contingency situations. Our 
Liquidity Ratio (LR) and High Quality Liquid Asset Adequacy 
Ratio (HQLAAR) are above the regulatory requirements.We  have  contingency  funding  plans  in  place  to  identify 
potential liquidity crises using a series of warning indicators. 
Crisis management processes and various strategies including 
funding  and  communication  have  been  developed  to 
minimise the impact of any liquidity crunch.7475风险管理
Risk Management操作风险操作风险是指由不完善或有问题的内部程序、员工和信息科技系统，
以及外部事件所造成损失的风险。操作风险涵盖银行营运风险、欺
诈风险、法律风险、监管合规风险、声誉风险、外包风险与科技风险， 
但不包括战略风险和业务风险。我行的主要目标是促进建立良好的声誉和经营环境。操作风险治理、框架及工具
我行基于已建立的操作风险管理政策、流程所形成的框架对操作风
险进行管理，由业务和支持部门对各自业务领域的操作风险据以合
理地识别、评估、监测、缓释和及时上报。操作风险管理委员会定
期召开月度会议监督管理操作风险相关事宜。我行的操作风险治理架构采用“三道防线”的模式。业务和支持部
门作为第一道防线负责在日常工作中建立健全有效的控制环境。各
业务和支持部门负责实施操作风险框架和政策、将适当的内部控制
嵌入流程并且维持关键流程的业务恢复能力。操作风险管理部作为第二道防线，通过相应框架、政策、工具和系
统对操作风险进行总体治理。同时，监测关键风险自我评估结果、
外包事项、关键操作风险指标超过预警阀值、自我识别的操作风险
和操作风险事件，并将此类问题向高级管理层、相关高级管理委员
会及董事会进行报告。内部审计作为第三道防线，通过定期审计检查，对风险治理框架和
内部控制总体有效性予以独立和客观的评价。风险识别和控制自我评估是我行操作风险管理框架的重要内容。其
通过在全行范围实施一系列操作风险管理工具来实现。我行制定了
多项风险缓释政策和规程以维持稳健的经营环境。我行制定了业务连续性和危机管理规程以确保在发生意外事件时，
关键业务和支持部门得以迅速恢复。管理层向董事会提交年度验证
报告，陈述本行业务连续性就绪情况。Operational Risk
Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate 
or failed internal processes, people and systems, or from 
external events. Operational risk includes banking operations 
risk,  fraud  risk,  legal  risk,  regulatory  compliance  risks, 
reputational risk, outsourcing risk and technology risk, but 
excludes strategic and business risk.Our primary objective is to foster a sound reputation and 
operating environment.Operational Risk Governance, Framework and Tools
Operational risk is managed through a framework of policies 
and procedures by which business and support units properly 
identify, assess, monitor, mitigate and report their risks. The 
ORMC meets monthly to provide oversight of operational 
risk matters in the bank.The Operational Risk Governance structure adopts the three 
lines-of-defence model. The business and support functions, 
as the first line of defence, are responsible for establishing 
a robust control environment as part of their day-to-day 
operations. Each business and support unit is responsible for 
implementing the operational risk framework and policies, 
embedding appropriate internal controls into processes and 
maintaining business resilience for key activities.The Operational Risk Management Division, as the second 
line  of  defence,  provides  overarching  governance  of 
operational  risk  through  relevant  frameworks,  policies, 
programmes  and  systems.  It  also  monitors  key  risk  self-
assessment  results,  outsourcing  matters,  key  operational 
risk indicator breaches, self-identified operational risks and 
incidents  and  reports  these  to  senior  management,  the 
relevant senior management committees and the Board.Internal Audit acts as the third line of defence by providing 
through  periodic  audit  reviews,  an  independent  and 
objective assessment on the overall effectiveness of the risk 
governance framework and internal control through periodic 
audit reviews.A  key  component  of  the  operational  risk  management 
framework is risk identification and control self-assessments. 
This is achieved through the Bank-wide implementation of 
a set of operational risk programmes. Several risk mitigation 
policies and programmes are in place to maintain a sound 
operating environment.We  have  business  continuity  and  crisis  management 
programmes in place to ensure prompt recovery of critical 
business  and  support  units  should  there  be  unforeseen 
events.  The  senior  management  provides  an  annual 
attestation to the Board on the state of business continuity 
readiness of the Bank.我行的保险计划覆盖民事和犯罪责任，网络安全，财产损失，恐怖
行动，公共责任以及董事和高级管理人员责任，通过充分的保险保
障以减少操作损失。科技风险
科技风险是指由于使用或依赖信息和通信技术而产生的任何潜在的
不利后果、损坏、损失、违反、故障或中断。操作风险管理委员会
负责科技风险的治理，以便能够对全行的操作风险事项进行全面监
督。我行的科技风险管理框架确保我行以系统且一致的方式管理科
技和网络风险。科技风险管理团队对全行的科技风险管理进行监
督，该团队与业务和支持部门密切合作，监督、检查和加强各部
门在科技风险管理方面的现行做法。同时，我行已建立本地化的
科技风险管理框架以系统、持续地管理科技风险。我行在 2019 年
正式实施了科技风险偏好指标，并且通过一系列科技风险管理工具
对我行的科技风险进行管理。监管合规风险
监管合规风险是指违反法律、法规、规定、标准或行为准则而引起
的风险。我行通过建立和维护由一系列合规政策、流程和指引组成
的框架对合规风险进行识别、监测和管理。该框架也对与制裁、反
洗钱和反恐怖融资相关的监管违规风险进行管理。法律风险
法律风险来自不可执行的、不利的、有缺陷的或未预期的合同；与
我行有关的诉讼或请求；法律法规的变化；或与适用的法律法规不
合规。业务和支持部门协同我行内外部法律顾问管理法律风险。声誉风险
声誉风险是指因银行利益相关方对我行经营方式、业务活动和财务
状况的负面预期或看法，进而对我行盈利能力、流动性或资本产生
不利影响的风险。我行充分认识到声誉风险影响并建立了相应的声
誉风险管理框架与政策，以识别和管理我行声誉风险。The  Bank’s  insurance  programme  covers  civil  and  crime 
liability, cyber security, property damage, terrorism, public 
liability,  as  well  as  directors’  and  officers’  liability.  The 
programme  reduces  operational  losses  through  adequate 
insurance coverage.Technology Risk
Technology Risk is defined as any potential adverse outcome, 
damage,  loss,  violation,  failure  or  disruption  arising  from 
the use of or reliance on information and communication 
technologies. The governance of technology risk rests with 
the  ORMC  to  enable  a  holistic  oversight  of  operational 
risk  matters  across  the  Bank.  The  Bank’s  technology  risk 
management framework ensures that technology and cyber 
risks are managed in a systematic and consistent manner. 
The Technology Risk Management team has governance and 
oversight of technology risk management across the Bank. 
The team works closely with business and support units to 
oversee, to review and to strengthen their current practices 
in technology risk management.The Bank has implemented 
the Technology Risk Appetite in 2019. A set of technology risk 
management programs are in place to manage technology 
risks within the Bank.Regulatory Risk
Regulatory risk refers to the risk of non-compliance with 
laws, regulations, rules, standards and codes of conduct. We 
identify, monitor and manage this risk through a structured 
governance framework of Compliance policies, procedures 
and guidelines maintained by the Bank. The framework also 
manages the risk of regulatory breaches relating to Sanctions, 
Anti-money  Laundering  and  Countering  the  Financing  of 
Terrorism.Legal Risk
Legal risk arises from unenforceable, unfavourable, defective 
or unintended contracts, lawsuits or claims, developments 
in laws and regulations, or non-compliance with applicable 
laws and regulations. Business and support units work with 
the Bank’s both internal and external legal counsels to ensure 
that legal risks are managed.Reputational Risk
Reputational risk is the risk of adverse impact on earnings, 
liquidity  or  capital  arising  from  negative  stakeholder 
perception  or  opinion  of  the  Bank’s  business  practices, 
activities and financial condition. The Bank recognises the 
impact of reputational risk and has developed respective 
framework and policy to identify and to manage the risk in 
the Bank.7677风险管理
Risk Management外包风险
外包风险是由于服务提供商未能提供外包服务、未遵守法律和监管
要求、违反保密规定而对我行财务、经营、声誉，法律和合规产生
负面影响的风险。我行制定了外包风险管理框架、政策和规程与指
引以管理外包风险。欺诈风险
欺诈是指具有欺骗或掩盖事实等特征的行为，不仅限与获取金钱或
实质利益相关。大华银行（中国）积极管控欺诈风险，风险管理部下设欺诈风险管
理部，作为第二道防线的组成部分，推动欺诈风险管理策略与治理，
并监督欺诈风险管理框架的实施，包括牵头案件防控工作以落实监
管部门相关要求。在公司治理方面，欺诈风险由董事会下设审计委
员会负责监督，在管理层由操作风险管理委员会实施监督。全体员工均须秉持《大华银行（中国） 员工行为准则》，其中包含
反贿赂和反腐败的有关规定。同时，我行设立欺诈事件举报热线以
确保欺诈调查的独立性。欺诈风险管理部通过与业务及支持部门的
紧密协作，从预防、侦测、调查、整改及报告等五个方面持续加强
全行现有欺诈风险管理体系的运行。Outsourcing Risk
Outsourcing risk is the risk of adverse financial, operational, 
and reputational, legal and compliance impact arising from 
the failure of a service provider to provide the outsourced 
service or to comply with legal and regulatory requirements, 
or a service provider’s breaches of security. The Bank has in 
place the Outsourcing Risk Management framework, policy, 
procedures and guidelines to manage outsourcing risks.Fraud Risk
Fraud is defined as an act, with an element to deceive or to 
conceal facts; and is not restricted to the gain of monetary 
or material benefits.UOB (China) actively manages fraud risks. Integrated Fraud 
Management (IFM) Division under Risk Management in the 
second  line  of  defence,  drives  strategy,  governance  and 
oversees the framework for fraud risk management which 
covers Anti-Fraud tasks in accordance with our regulatory 
requirements.  The  corporate  governance  of  fraud  risk  is 
provided by the Audit Committee at the Board level, and 
primarily by the ORMC at the Management level.All  employees  are  required  to  uphold  the  UOB  (China) 
Code  of  Conduct,  which  includes  anti-bribery  and  anti-
corruption provisions. The UOB (China)’s fraud hotline to IFM 
ensures independent fraud investigation. The division also 
works closely with business and support units to strengthen 
their current practices across the five pillars of prevention, 
detection, response, remediation and reporting.策略风险和业务风险
策略风险指由于不利的战略决策，决策执行不当或对行业，经济或
科技变化缺乏响应，而对收益、资本或声誉造成当前或预期的负面
影响。策略风险可能导致无法实现银行的战略目标。业务风险指由于业务参数的变化，例如业务量，利润和成本的变化
而对收益或资本产生不利影响。业务风险的来源包括产品或价格缺
乏竞争力，内部效率低下以及总体业务环境的变化，例如市场收缩
或客户期望和需求的变化。业务风险可能导致无法实现银行的短期
业务目标。我行董事会和高级管理层委员会负责与银行业务相关的风险治理，
并在银行的成功运营中发挥关键作用。董事会下执行委员会协助董
事会处理策略风险和业务风险管理事宜，高级管理层委员会负责银
行日常管理，并在银行的风险偏好内进行业务决策。管理委员会和
风险与资本委员会负责对策略风险和业务风险管理进行监督。在考
虑到宏观经济环境的情况下，行长办公室与财务部在本行的战略规
划过程中密切合作，并将银行战略转化为年度财务目标。业务部门
负责人负责制定和实施有针对性的业务部门战略，并确保与整体银
行战略保持一致。Strategic and Business Risk
Strategic risk refers to the current or prospective negative 
impact  on  earnings,  capital  or  reputation  arising  from 
adverse  strategic  decisions,  improper  implementation  of 
decisions or a lack of responsiveness to industry, economic 
or technological changes. It is the risk of not achieving the 
Bank’s strategic goals.Business  risk  refers  to  the  adverse  impact  on  earnings  or 
capital  arising  from  changes  in  business  parameters  such 
as  volumes,  margins  and  costs.  The  sources  of  business 
risk  include  uncompetitive  products  or  pricing,  internal 
inefficiencies, and changes in general business conditions 
such  as  market  contraction  or  changes  in  customers’ 
expectations and demand. It is the risk of not achieving the 
Bank’s short-term business objectives.The Board of Directors and senior management committees 
are responsible for managing risks associated with the Bank’s 
business activities and play a critical role in the successful 
operation  of  the  Bank.    The  Executive  Committee  assist 
the Board in relation to the management of strategic and 
business risks.  The senior management committees oversee 
the day-to-day management of the Bank and make business 
decisions within the Bank’s risk appetite.  The MC and the 
RCC  have  oversight  functions  relating  to  strategic  and 
business risk management. CEO Office works closely with 
Finance on the Bank’s strategic planning process and on the 
translation of the Bank’s strategy into annual financial targets, 
taking the macroeconomic environment into account. The 
business segment heads are responsible for developing and 
implementing segment-specific business strategies and for 
ensuring alignment with the overall Bank strategy.7879重要事项
Important Highlights（一）股东情况股东名称：大华银行有限公司，持股比 100%。（二）报告期内，我行无合并、分立等其他重大事项发生。（三）报告期内，我行董事、监事及高级管理人员无受监管
部门处罚的情况发生。（四）报告期内我行发生的重大事件- 
- 
- 
-2019 年 5 月，上海外滩支行关闭。
2019 年 5 月，上海徐家汇支行开业。
2019 年 9 月，中山分行开业。 
2019 年 12 月，广州分行搬迁。(1)  Shareholder Status Update
Name of Shareholder: United Overseas Bank Limited
Percentage of shares held: 100 per cent.(2) During the reporting period, there were no split or merger 
activities or other major corporate developments during 
the reporting period.(3) None of the Bank’s directors, supervisors or top management 
was penalised by the regulatory authorities during the 
reporting period.(4) Highlights during the reporting period:
- 
- 
- 
-In May 2019, Shanghai Bund Sub-branch was closed.
In May 2019, Shanghai Xujiahui Sub-branch opened. 
In September 2019, Zhongshan Branch opened. 
In December 2019, Guangzhou Branch was relocated.总行
上海市浦东新区银城路116号、
128号 
邮编: 200120
电话: (86) (21) 6061 8888
传真: (86) (21) 6886 0908
SWIFT: UOVBCNSH
网址: www.uobchina.com.cn上海分行
上海市浦东新区银城路116号、
128号102室
邮编: 200120
电话: (86) (21) 6061 8288
传真: (86) (21) 6886 1113静安支行（上海）
上海市静安区南京西路1468号
中欣大厦1P01-02室、201-203室
邮编: 200040
电话: (86) (21) 6080 9366
传真: (86) (21) 6289 1001Head Office
No. 116, 128 Yincheng Road,
Pudong New Area,
Shanghai 200120
Tel: (86) (21) 6061 8888
Fax: (86) (21) 6886 0908
SWIFT: UOVBCNSH
Website: www.uobchina.com.cnShanghai Branch
Room 102, 
No. 116, 128 Yincheng Road,
Pudong New Area,
Shanghai 200120
Tel: (86) (21) 6061 8288
Fax: (86) (21) 6886 1113Jing’an Sub-branch (Shanghai)
Room 1P01-02, 201-203, 
United Plaza,
No. 1468 Nanjing Road West, 
Jing’an District,
Shanghai 200040
Tel: (86) (21) 6080 9366
Fax: (86) (21) 6289 1001徐家汇支行（上海）
上海市徐汇区虹桥路1号
港汇广场办公楼第一座30层01-03
号单元
邮编: 200030
电话: (86) (21) 6091 5788
传真: (86) (21) 6323 3015上海自贸试验区支行
（对公业务）
上海自由贸易试验区银城路116、
128号 
大华银行大厦六层602室 
邮编: 200120
电话: (86) (21) 6061 8176 
传真: (86) (21) 6886 0906Xujiahui Sub-branch (Shanghai)
Unit 01-03, 30 Floor, 
Grand Gateway Tower I,
1 Hongqiao Road, 
Xuhui District,
Shanghai 200030
Tel: (86) (21) 6091 5788
Fax: (86) (21) 6323 3015Shanghai Pilot Free Trade Zone 
Sub-branch (Wholesale Banking 
Only)
Room 602, 6 Floor, 
No. 116, 128 Yincheng Road, 
Pilot Free Trade Zone,
Shanghai 200120
Tel: (86) (21) 6061 8176 
Fax: (86) (21) 6886 0906北京分行
北京市朝阳区景华南街5号
远洋光华国际C栋
1层102单元
25层01-03单元、05-09单元
邮编: 100020
电话: (86) (10) 5879 2626
传真: (86) (10) 8590 6725燕莎中心支行（北京）
北京市朝阳区亮马桥路50号
燕莎中心一号楼S105单元
及C806、C807单元
邮编: 100125
电话: (86) (10) 8489 3888
传真: (86) (10) 6461 5750成都分行
成都市锦江区红星路三段1号
国际金融中心一号办公楼
21楼8,9及10单元
邮编: 610021
电话: (86) (28) 6879 2888
传真: (86) (28) 8653 1878广州分行（对公业务）
广州市天河区天河路385号
太古汇1座3801室
邮编: 510620
电话: (86) (20) 2881 3688
传真: (86) (20) 8755 8830营 业 网 点
Our NetworkBeijing Branch 
Unit 102 First Floor and
Unit 01-03, 05-09 25 Floor,
Tower C Office Park,
No. 5 Jing Hua South Street,
Chaoyang District,
Beijing 100020
Tel: (86) (10) 5879 2626
Fax: (86) (10) 8590 6725Lufthansa Centre Sub-branch 
(Beijing) 
S105 and C806/C807
No. 50 Liangmaqiao Road,
Chaoyang District,
Beijing 100125
Tel: (86) (10) 8489 3888
Fax: (86) (10) 6461 5750Chengdu Branch
Unit 8,9,10, 21 Floor,
Office Tower 1, Chengdu IFS, 
No. 1 Section 3, Hongxing Road 
Jinjiang District,
Chengdu 610021
Tel:  (86) (28) 6879 2888
Fax: (86) (28) 8653 1878Guangzhou Branch (Wholesale 
Banking Only)
Suite 3801, TaiKoo Hui Tower 1
385 Tianhe Road, 
Tianhe District,
Guangzhou 510620
Tel: (86) (20) 2881 3688
Fax: (86) (20) 8755 8830沈阳分行
沈阳市沈河区北站路61号
沈阳财富中心项目A座第21层
06/07号
邮编: 110013
电话: (86) (24) 3121 2168
传真: (86) (24) 3116 2078Shenyang Branch
Unit 06/07, 21 Floor,
Tower A Fortune Plaza,
No. 61 Beizhan Road,
Shenhe District,
Shenyang 110013
Tel: (86) (24) 3121 2168
Fax: (86) (24) 3116 20788081Suzhou Branch (Wholesale 
Banking Only)
Unit 1801, Tower 1 Jinghope Square,
No. 88 Huachi Street,
Suzhou Industrial Park (SIP),
Suzhou 215000
Tel: (86) (512) 6298 5200
Fax: (86) (512) 8686 2006Kunming Branch (Wholesale 
Banking Only)
Unit 2105 & 2106, 21 Floor, 
East Tower MASTER, 
No. 1 Chongren Street, 
Wuhua District,
Kunming 650000
Tel: (86) (871) 6555 0777
Fax: (86) (871) 6361 6191Zhongshan Branch (Wholesale 
Banking Only)
Unit 1,2 and 12, 37 Floor,
Zhisan International Financial 
Centre,
No.16 Zhongshan San Road,
Zhongshan 528400
Tel: (86) (760) 8770 7666
Fax: (86) (760) 8989 2900深圳分行（对公业务）
深圳市罗湖区深南东路5016号
京基一百大厦
A-6001-03单元
邮编: 518001
电话: (86) (755) 2294 5688
传真: (86) (755) 8246 3326Shenzhen Branch (Wholesale 
Banking Only)
Unit 6001-03, Tower A,
KingKey100, 
No.5016 Shennan Road East,
Shenzhen 518001
Tel: (86) (755) 2294 5688
Fax: (86) (755) 8246 3326苏州分行（对公业务）
苏州工业园区华池街88号
晋合广场1幢1801室
邮编: 215000
电话: (86) (512) 6298 5200
传真: (86) (512) 8686 2006厦门分行
厦门市湖滨北路19号
大华银行大厦1-2层
邮编: 361012
电话: (86) (592) 508 1601
传真: (86) (592) 508 1605Xiamen Branch
1-2 Floor,
United Overseas Bank Building, 
No. 19 Hubin Bei Road,
Xiamen 361012
Tel: (86) (592) 508 1601
Fax: (86) (592) 508 1605昆明分行（对公业务）
昆明市五华区崇仁街1号
东方柏丰首座商务中心东楼21层
2105、2106号
邮编: 650000
电话: (86) (871) 6555 0777
传真: (86) (871) 6361 6191中山分行（对公业务）
广东省中山市中山三路16号
之三国际金融中心第37层
1、2、12卡
邮编: 528400
电话: (86) (760) 8770 7666
传真: (86) (760) 8989 2900天津分行
天津市南开区长江道与南开三马
路交口融汇广场2-1-2207、2208、
2209
邮编: 300100
电话: (86) (22) 8701 7070
传真: (86) (22) 8738 0500杭州分行
杭州市西湖区天目山路181号
天际大厦201、203室
邮编: 310013
电话: (86) (571) 2809 0666
传真: (86) (571) 8190 9619重庆分行
重庆市渝中区民生路235号
海航保利国际中心写字楼31层
A单元
邮编: 400010
电话: (86) (23) 6037 2888
传真: (86) (23) 6037 2788Tianjin Branch
Unit 2-1-2207, 2208, 2209, 
RongHui Plaza,
ChangJiang Road, 
Nankai District,
Tianjin 300100
Tel: (86) (22) 8701 7070
Fax: (86) (22) 873 80500Hangzhou Branch
Room 201 and 203, 
No. 181 Tian Mu Shan Road, 
Xihu District,
Hangzhou 310013
Tel: (86) (571) 2809 0666
Fax: (86) (571) 8190 9619Chongqing Branch
Unit A, 31 Floor,
HNA-POLY International Centre,
No. 235 Min Sheng Road, 
Yu Zhong District,
Chongqing 400010 
Tel: (86) (23) 6037 2888
Fax: (86) (23) 6037 2788大华银行（中国）有限公司
2019 年 12 月 31 日
United Overseas Bank (China) Limited
31 December 2019已审财务报表
Audited Financial Statements一、审计报告84AUDITORS’ REPORTAUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS二、财务报表
 
     1. 资产负债表2. 利润表89
 
90                                                            
 
91                                           
 
92                                              
 
94                                           
     5. 财务报表附注3. 所有者权益变动表4. 现金流量表Balance SheetIncome StatementStatement of Changes in EquityStatement of Cash FlowsNotes to Financial Statements8283审计报告
Auditors’ Report8485审计报告
Auditors’ ReportAuditors’ Report
Ernst & Young Hua Ming (2020) Shen Zi No 60658622_B01
United Overseas Bank (China) LimitedTo the Board of Directors of United Overseas Bank (China) 
Limited:(I) Opinion
We have audited the accompanying financial statements of 
United Overseas Bank (China) Limited(hereinafter referred 
to as “the Bank”), which comprise the balance sheet as at 
31 December 2019, the income statement, the statement of 
changes in equity and the statement of cash flows for the 
year then ended, and notes to the financial statements.In  our  opinion,  the  accompanying  financial  statements 
present fairly, in all material respects, United Overseas Bank 
(China) Limited’s financial position as at 31 December 2019 and 
United Overseas Bank (China) Limited’s financial performance 
and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with 
Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises (“ASBEs”).(II) Basis for Opinion
We  conducted  our  audit  in  accordance  with  China 
Standards on Auditing (“CSAs”). Our responsibilities under 
those  standards  are  further  described  in  the  Auditor’s 
responsibilities  for  the  audit  of  the  financial  statements 
section  of  our  report.  We  are  independent  of  United 
Overseas  Bank  (China)  Limited  in  accordance  with  China 
Code of Ethics for Certified Public Accountants (the “Code”), 
and  we  have  fulfilled  our  other  ethical  responsibilities 
in accordance  with the Code.  We  believe that the audit 
evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to 
provide a basis for our opinion.(III)  Responsibilities  of  the  management  and 
those charged with governance for the financial 
statements
The management of United Overseas Bank (China) Limited 
is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of 
the  financial  statements  in  accordance  with  ASBEs,  and 
for designing, implementing and maintaining such internal 
control  as  the  management  determines  is  necessary  to 
enable the preparation of financial statements that are free 
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.In  preparing  the  financial  statements,  the  management 
is responsible for assessing United Overseas Bank (China) 
Limited’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, 
as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the 
going concern basis of accounting, unless the management 
either  intends  to  liquidate  United  Overseas  Bank  (China) 
Limited or to cease operations or has no realistic alternative 
but to do so.Those  charged  with  governance  are  responsible  for 
overseeing United Overseas Bank (China) Limited’s financial 
reporting process.(IV) Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the 
financial statements 
Our  objectives  are  to  obtain  reasonable  assurance  about 
whether the financial statements as a whole are free from 
material  misstatement,  whether  due  to  fraud  or  error, 
and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. 
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a 
guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with CSAs 
will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. 
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are generally 
considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they 
could reasonably be expected to influence the economic 
decisions  of  users  taken  on  the  basis  of  these  financial 
statements.As part of an audit in accordance with CSAs, we exercise 
professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism 
throughout the audit. We also:(1)  Identify  and  assess  the  risks  of  material  misstatement 
of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, 
design and perform audit procedures responsive to those 
risks,  and  obtain  audit  evidence  that  is  sufficient  and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of 
not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is 
higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve 
collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, 
or the override of internal control.(2)  Obtain  an  understanding  of  internal  control  relevant 
to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are 
appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose 
of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of internal 
control.8687(3) Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used 
and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related 
disclosures made by the management.(4) Conclude on the appropriateness of the management’s 
use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on 
the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty 
exists  related  to  events  or  conditions  that  may  cast 
significant doubt on United Overseas Bank (China) Limited’s 
ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a 
material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention 
in  our  auditor’s  report  to  the  related  disclosures  in  the 
financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to 
modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit 
evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. 
However,  future  events  or  conditions  may  cause  United 
Overseas  Bank  (China)  Limited  to  cease  to  continue  as  a 
going concern.(5) Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content 
of the financial statements, including the disclosures, and 
whether the financial statements represent the underlying 
transactions  and  events  in  a  manner  that  achieves  fair 
presentation.We  communicate  with  those  charged  with  governance 
regarding,  among  other  matters,  the  planned  scope  and 
timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including 
any  significant  deficiencies  in  internal  control  that  we 
identify during our audit.Ernst & Young Hua Ming LLP, Shanghai BranchChinese Certified Public Accountant: Yan, ShengweiShanghai   ChinaChinese Certified Public Accountant: Wang, Wenyan3 April 202088资产负债表
Balance Sheet
2019 年 12 月 31 日  31 December 2019
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)附注六
Notes 62019年12月31日
31-12-20192018年12月31日
31-12-2018资产：ASSETS:现金及存放中央银行款项Cash and deposit with the Central Bank贵金属存放同业款项拆出资金交易性金融资产衍生金融资产Precious metalsDue from banks and other financial institutionsPlacements with banks and other financial institutionsFinancial assets held-for-tradingDerivative financial assets买入返售金融资产Reverse repurchase financial assets发放贷款和垫款其他债权投资固定资产使用权资产无形资产递延所得税资产其他资产资产总计负债：Loans and advances to customers
Other debt instrument at fair value through other 
comprehensive income 
Fixed assetsRight-of-use assetsIntangible assetsDeferred tax assetsOther assetsTOTAL ASSETSLIABILITIES:同业及其他金融机构存放款项Due to banks and other financial institutions拆入资金交易性金融负债衍生金融负债Placements from banks and other financial institutionsFinancial liabilities held-for-tradingDerivative financial liabilities卖出回购金融资产款Repurchase agreements吸收存款应付职工薪酬应交税费应付债券预计负债租赁负债其他负债负债合计所有者权益：实收资本资本公积其他综合收益盈余公积一般风险准备未分配利润所有者权益合计：Customer depositsPayroll payablesTax payablesDebt securities issuedProvisionsLease liabilitiesOther liabilitiesTOTAL LIABILITIESEQUITY:Paid-up capitalCapital reserveOther comprehensive incomeSurplus reservesGeneral reservesRetained earningsTOTAL EQUITY1234567891011121315161751819202122232425262728293031负债及所有者权益总计TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY载于第 94 页至 180 页的财务报表附注为本财务报表的组成部分
The notes on pages 94 to 180 form an integral part of these financial statements.6,477,543,2501,162,708,3441,852,438,9027,499,846,2221,425,658,3774,133,777,8893,253,748,36135,144,414,61210,145,887,93632,665,88272,213,755102,639,668114,246,411438,498,8086,304,237,398470,469,2801,834,782,79913,970,656,3751,472,009,4026,332,656,8753,289,256,52432,922,090,2606,970,584,93236,483,950-103,322,284129,728,621370,401,83471,856,288,41774,206,680,534492,069,87813,458,952,4353,183,176,6244,137,215,590720,292,241571,731,38016,764,294,2742,720,495,2156,171,917,029270,207,86339,506,088,32837,254,638,032121,660,70862,852,0822,745,552,50737,150,26670,937,706335,476,25064,871,424,615125,647,972116,916,7522,652,640,38325,364,243-698,305,80067,372,158,9435,500,000,0005,500,000,00014,562,83042,888,850127,512,353816,675,492483,224,2776,984,863,80271,856,288,41711,191,69720,281,719115,075,958826,398,940361,573,2776,834,521,59174,206,680,53489利润表
Income Statement
2019 年度  For the year ended 31 December 2019
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)一、营业收入1. OPERATING INCOME利息收入利息支出利息净收入Interest incomeInterest expenseNet interest income手续费及佣金收入Fee and commission income手续费及佣金支出Fee and commission expense手续费及佣金净收入Net fee and commission income投资收益Investment income公允价值变动净损益Gain/(Loss) from changes in fair value汇兑损益其他收益Foreign exchange gain/(loss)Other income营业收入合计TOTAL OPERATING INCOME二、营业支出税金及附加业务及管理费信用减值损失营业支出合计三、营业利润加：营业外收入减：营业外支出四、税前利润总额减：所得税费用五、净利润2. OPERATING EXPENSESBusiness tax and surchargesGeneral and administrative expensesCredit impairment lossesTOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES3. OPERATING PROFITAdd: Non-operating incomeLess: Non-operating expenses4. PROFIT BEFORE TAXLess: Income tax expense5. NET PROFIT六、其他综合收益的税后净额6. OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME, NET OF TAX其他债权投资公允价值变动Fair value changes of other debt instrument at fair value through 
other comprehensive income其他债权投资信用减值准备Credit impairment losses of other debt investments其他Others七、综合收益总额7. TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME载于第 94 页至第 180 页的财务报表附注为本财务报表的组成部分
The notes on pages 94 to 180 form an integral part of these financial statements.本财务报表由以下人士签署：
The financial statements have been signed by:行长兼首席执行官、董事：符懋赞
President and CEO, Director：Peter Foo Moo Tan90首席财务官：朱轩
CFO：Brian Zhu附注六
Notes 620192018323232333333343536373839402828282,372,005,854(1,537,936,819)834,069,035239,478,508(67,569,057)171,909,45150,986,287168,226,620133,411,3741,961,4601,360,564,227(14,074,366)(1,068,961,788)(141,313,827)2,237,995,099(1,258,795,984)979,199,115188,701,612(58,388,023)130,313,589137,575,039(293,485,843)273,794,7552,073,4491,229,470,104(12,468,305)(997,006,726)(53,211,435)(1,224,349,981)(1,062,686,466)136,214,2461,108,361(593,915)136,728,692(12,364,745)124,363,94722,550,51656,615-146,971,078166,783,6383,072,736(863,967)168,992,407(18,497,889)150,494,51826,617,839519,293(316,140)177,315,510所有者权益变动表
Statement of Changes in Equity
 2019 年度  For the year ended 31 December 2019
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)实收资本
Paid-up 
capital资本公积
Capital
 reserves其他综合收益
Other 
comprehensive 
income盈余公积
Surplus 
reserves一般风险准备
General
 reserves未分配利润
Retained 
earnings合计
Total本年年初金额Opening balance5,500,000,00011,191,69720,281,719115,075,958826,398,940361,573,2776,834,521,591本年增减变动金额Movements during the year（一）综合收益总额(i)Total comprehensive income（二） 所有者投入和减
少资本
1.股份支付计入所有者
  权益的金额(ii)Injection of funds by and distribution 
of funds to the investor1. Share-based payment（三）利润分配(iii) Profit appropriation1.提取盈余公积1. Appropriation to surplus reserves2.提取一般风险准备2. Appropriation to general reserves-------3,371,13322,607,13112,436,395(9,723,448)121,651,000150,342,211-22,607,1313,371,1333,371,133--------------124,363,947146,971,078--3,371,1333,371,13312,436,395(9,723,448)(2,712,947)12,436,395-(12,436,395)-(9,723,448)9,723,448---本年年末余额Closing balance5,500,000,000 14,562,83042,888,850127,512,353816,675,492483,224,277 6,984,863,8022018 年度  For the year ended 31 December 2018
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)实收资本
Paid-up 
capital资本公积
Capital
 reserves其他综合收益
Other 
comprehensive 
income盈余公积
Surplus 
reserves一般风险准备
General
 reserves未分配利润
Retained 
earnings合计
Total上年年末金额Closing balance at last year5,500,000,0009,975,150(7,477,010)100,026,507708,458,438482,534,898 6,793,517,983会计政策变更Changes in accounting policies（一）采用新金融工具
准则的影响Impact of adopting IFRS9--937,737--(138,466,186)(137,528,449)本年年初金额Opening balance5,500,000,0009,975,150(6,539,273)100,026,507708,458,438344,068,712 6,655,989,534本年增减变动金额Movements during the year（一）综合收益总额(i)Total comprehensive income（二） 所有者投入和减
少资本
1.股份支付计入所有者
  权益的金额(ii)Injection of funds by and distribution 
of funds to the investor1. Share-based payment（三）利润分配(iii) Profit appropriation1.提取盈余公积1. Appropriation to surplus reserves2.提取一般风险准备2. Appropriation to general reserves-------1,216,54726,820,99215,049,451117,940,50217,504,565178,532,057-26,820,9921,216,5471,216,547--------------150,494,518177,315,510--1,216,5471,216,54715,049,451117,940,502(132,989,953)15,049,451-(15,049,451)-117,940,502(117,940,502)---本年年末余额Closing balance5,500,000,00011,191,69720,281,719115,075,958826,398,940361,573,277 6,834,521,591载于第 94 页至第 180 页的财务报表附注为本财务报表的组成部分
The notes on pages 94 to 180 form an integral part of these financial statements.91现金流量表
Statement of Cash Flows 
2019 年度  For the year ended 31 December 2019
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)附注六Notes 620192018二、投资活动产生的现金流量2. CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES一、经营活动产生的现金流量1. CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES存放中央银行款项净减少额Net decrease in due from the Central Bank-580,545,268存放同业款项净减少额Net decrease in due from banks and other financial institutions拆出资金净减少额Net decrease in placements with banks and other financial 
institutions吸收存款和同业及其他金融机构存放款项净增
加额Net increase in customer deposits and due to banks and other 
financial institutions拆入资金净增加额Net increase in placements from banks and other financial 
institutions244,712,0246,251,367,730--2,158,568,0386,439,553,841-359,827,032收取的利息、手续费及佣金的现金Cash received from interest, service fee and commission2,463,442,4332,112,899,459为交易目的而持有的金融资产净减少额Net decrease in financial assets at fair value through profit or loss516,201,154-收回投资收到的现金Cash received from maturity of investments18,390,000,00017,530,000,000取得投资收益收到的现金Cash received from investment income374,785,155412,915,933处置固定资产和其他长期资产收回的现金 Proceeds from disposal of fixed assets and other long term assets26,00511,009投资活动现金流入小计Sub-total of cash inflows from investing activities18,764,811,16017,942,926,942投资所支付的现金Cash paid for investment21,670,000,00020,590,000,000购建固定资产和其他长期资产支付的现金 Cash paid for purchase of fixed assets and other long term assets34,553,11739,176,322投资活动现金流出小计Sub-total of cash outflows from investing activities21,704,553,11720,629,176,322投资活动产生的现金流量净额Net cash flows from investing activities(2,939,741,957)(2,686,249,380)收到其他与经营活动有关的现金Cash received from other operating activities371,490,999502,938,357三、筹资活动产生的现金流量3. CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES经营活动现金流入小计Sub-total of cash inflows from operating activities12,005,782,3789,995,763,957发行债券收到的现金Cash received from debt securities issuance2,854,361,5102,610,108,700存放中央银行款项净增加额Net increase in due from the Central Bank157,790,958-筹资活动现金流入小计Sub-total of cash inflows from financing activities2,854,361,5102,610,108,700存放同业款项净增加额Net increase in due from banks and other financial institutions拆出资金净增加额Net increase in placements with banks and other financial institutions--493,360,9153,874,675,918偿还债务支付的现金Cash repayments for debts分配股利、利润或偿付利息支付的现金Cash payments for distribution of dividends or profit and interest 
expenses2,830,000,00049,300,000--拆入资金净减少额Net decrease in placements from banks and other financial 
institutions2,374,844,510-发放贷款和垫款净增加额Net increase in loans and advances to customers2,363,699,1865,771,338,330支付的利息、手续费及佣金的现金Payments made for interest, service fee and commission1,425,366,4371,235,165,989支付给职工及为职工支付的现金Cash paid to and on behalf of employees699,749,712610,982,741支付的各项税费Cash paid for all types of taxes231,748,86295,313,711为交易目的而持有的金融资产净增加额Net increase in financial assets at fair value through profit or loss-551,754,386支付其他与经营活动有关的现金Cash paid for other operating activities1,396,548,5781,181,844,262经营活动现金流出小计Sub-total of cash outflows from operating activities8,649,748,24313,814,436,252经营活动产生的现金流量净额Net cash flows from operating activities413,356,034,135(3,818,672,295)支付其他与筹资活动有关的现金Cash paid to other financing activities38,737,0812,676,427筹资活动现金流出小计Sub-total of cash outflows from financing activities2,918,037,0812,676,427筹资活动产生的现金流量净额Net cash flows from financing activities(63,675,571)2,607,432,273四、汇率变动对现金及现金等价物
        的影响4. EFFECT OF EXCHANGE RATE CHANGES ON CASH AND  
    CASH EQUIVALENTS五、现金及现金等价物净增加/（减少）额5.  NET INCREASE/(DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH 
    EQUIVALENTS加：年初现金及现金等价物余额Add: Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year六、 年末现金及现金等价物余额6. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF THE YEAR62,653,795123,573,341415,270,402(3,773,916,061)10,552,816,87014,326,732,93110,968,087,27210,552,816,8704142载于第 94 页至第 180 页的财务报表附注为本财务报表的组成部分
The notes on pages 94 to 180 form an integral part of these financial statements.9293财务报表附注
Notes to the Financial Statements
2019 年度  For the year ended 31 December 2019
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)一、公司的基本情况1. Corporate information二、编制基础大华银行（中国）有限公司（以下简称“本公司”或“大华银行（中
国）”）是由大华银行有限公司（以下简称“大华银行”）在中华
人民共和国上海市成立的外商独资银行。经中国银行保险监督管理委员会（以下简称“银保监会”）于 2007
年 4 月 5 日批准，大华银行按《中华人民共和国外资银行管理条例》
（以下简称“《管理条例》”）、《中华人民共和国外资银行管理
条例实施细则》（以下简称“《实施细则》”）的有关规定，在上
海市筹建由其单独出资的外商独资银行——大华银行（中国）有限
公司，并将其中国境内的大华银行上海分行、北京分行、深圳分行、
广州分行、成都分行、厦门分行、沈阳分行及上海静安支行（以下
简称“原中国区分行及支行”）改制为大华银行（中国）的分支机构。本 公 司 持 有 银 保 监 会 颁 发 的 金 融 许 可 证， 机 构 编 码 为：
B0308H131000001 号，持有上海市工商行政管理局核准颁发的企业
法人营业执照，统一社会信用代码为：913100006694147236。注册
地址为中国（上海）自由贸易试验区银城路 116 号、128 号大华银
行大厦三层、五层 501 室（实际四层）、十三层（实际十二层）、
十五层（实际十三层）、十六层（实际十四层）、十七层（实际
十五层）、十八层（实际十六层）、十九层（实际十七层）、二十
层（实际十八层）。注册资本为人民币 55 亿元。根据本公司营业执照的规定，本公司经营期限为不约定期限。本公
司主要从事经有关监管机构批准的外汇业务和人民币业务。2008
年 1 月 2 日为本公司与原中国区分行的业务切换日。截至 2019 年 12 月 31 日，除在上海设立的大华银行（中国）有限公
司总行外，本公司已在上海、北京、深圳、广州、厦门、成都、沈阳、
天津、杭州、重庆、苏州、昆明与中山设立了 13 家分行及 4 家支行。United Overseas Bank (China) Ltd. (hereinafter referred to 
as The Bank or UOB (China)) is a wholly foreign-owned bank 
established in Shanghai, People's Republic of China (PRC), by 
United Overseas Bank (UOB).In  accordance  with  the Regulation of the PRC on the 
Administration of Foreign-funded Banks (the Regulation), and the 
Detailed Rules on the Implementation of Regulation of the PRC on 
the Administration of Foreign-funded Banks (the Implementation), 
China  Banking  and  Insurance  Regulatory  Committee 
(CBIRC)  granted approval to UOB on 5 April 2007 to set up 
a wholly-owned subsidiary bank, UOB (China), in Shanghai 
by converting its Shanghai Branch, Beijing Branch, Shenzhen 
Branch, Guangzhou Branch, Chengdu Branch, Xiamen Branch, 
Shenyang Branch and Jing’an sub-branch (collectively known 
as the Former PRC Branches).The  Bank  obtained  the  licence  for  conducting  financial 
transaction from the CBIRC (Institution Code: B0308H131000001), 
and obtained its business licence (Uniform Social Credit Code: 
913100006694147236)  from  Shanghai  Administration  for 
Industry and Commerce. The registered address is Floor 3, 
Room 501 of Floor 5 (Actual Floor 4), Floor 13 (Actual Floor 
12), Floor 15 (Actual Floor 13), Floor 16 (Actual Floor 14), Floor 
17 (Actual Floor 15), Floor 18 (Actual Floor 16), Floor 19 (Actual 
Floor 17) and Floor 20 (Actual Floor 18), No. 116 and No. 128, 
Yin Cheng Road, Shanghai Pilot Free Trade Zone, China. The 
registered capital of the Bank is RMB5.5 billion.The  Bank  obtained  its  business  licence  issued  with  an 
unlimited operating period. The main businesses of the Bank 
are Renminbi and foreign currency businesses as approved 
by  relevant  regulatory  authorities.  The  date  of  business 
conversion from former PRC branches to UOB (China) was on 
2 January 2008.As of 31 December 2019, besides the Head Office incorporated 
in Shanghai, the Bank has set up 13 branches and 4 sub-branches 
respectively in Shanghai, Beijing, Shenzhen, Guangzhou, Xiamen, 
Chengdu, Shenyang, Tianjin, Hangzhou, Chongqing, Suzhou, 
Kunming and Zhongshan.本财务报表按照中华人民共和国财政部（以下简称“财政部”）颁
布的《企业会计准则——基本准则》以及其后颁布及修订的具体会
计准则、应用指南、解释以及其他相关规定（统称“企业会计准则”）
编制。本财务报表以持续经营为基础列报。编制本财务报表时，除某些金融工具外，均以历史成本为计价原则。
资产如果发生减值，则按照相关规定计提相应的减值准备。三、遵循企业会计准则的声明本财务报表符合企业会计准则的要求，真实、完整地反映了本公司
2019 年 12 月 31 日的财务状况以及 2019 年度的经营成果和现金流量。
 
四、重要会计政策和会计估计1. 会计年度
本公司的会计年度采用公历年度，即每年自 1 月 1 日起至 12 月 31 日止。2. 记账本位币
本公司的记账本位币和编制本财务报表所采用的货币均为人民币。除
有特别说明外，均以人民币元为单位列示。3. 现金及现金等价物
现金，是指本公司的库存现金以及可以随时用于支付的存款；现金
等价物，是指本公司持有的期限短、流动性强、易于转换为已知金
额的现金、价值变动风险很小的投资。现金等价物包括原到期日不超过三个月的存放中央银行的非限定性
款项、存放同业及其他金融机构款项、拆放同业及其他金融机构款
项、买入返售款项，以及变现能力强、易于转换为可知数额的现金、
价值变动风险小，而且由购买日起三个月内到期的债券投资。942. Preparation basis of the financial statementsThe financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with  the Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises-Basic 
Standard and  the  specific  standards,  the  implementation 
guidance, interpretations and other relevant provisions issued 
and revised subsequently by the Ministry of Finance of PRC 
(MOF) (collectively referred to as Accounting Standards for 
Business Enterprises).The  financial  statements  have  been  prepared  on  a  going 
concern basis.The  Bank’s  financial  statements  have  been  prepared  on 
an  accrual  basis  under  the  historical  cost  as  the  basis  of 
measurement, except for some financial instruments. If the 
assets  are  impaired,  corresponding  provisions  should  be 
recognised in accordance with relevant standrds.3. Compliance with the Accounting Standards for 
Business EnterprisesThe financial statements of the Bank have been prepared 
in accordance with the Accounting Standards for Business 
Enterprises, and present fairly and fully, the financial position 
of  the  Bank  as  of  31  December  2019  and  the  financial 
performance and the cash flows for the year then ended.4. Significant accounting policies and estimates(1) Accounting year
The accounting year of the Bank is from 1 January to 31 December 
of each calendar year.(2) Functional currency
The  Bank’s  functional  currency  is  Renminbi  (RMB).  These 
financial statements are presented in RMB and all amounts 
are stated in RMB, unless otherwise stated.(3) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash comprises cash on hand and demand deposits; cash 
equivalents are short-term, highly liquid investments which 
are readily convertible to known amounts of cash, and which 
are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value.Cash equivalents comprise non-statutory deposits due from 
central banks, amounts due from banks and other financial 
institutions, reverse repurchase agreements maturing within 
three months, and short-term highly liquid investments that 
are  readily  convertible  into  known  amounts  of  cash,  and 
which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value, 
which have an original maturity date within three months.954. 外币折算
本公司对于发生的外币交易，将外币金额折算为记账本位币金额。外币交易在初始确认时，采用交易发生日的即期汇率将外币金额折
算为记账本位币金额。于资产负债表日，对于外币货币性项目采用
资产负债表日即期汇率折算，由此产生的结算和货币性项目折算差
额计入当期损益。以历史成本计量的外币非货币性项目，仍采用交
易发生日的即期汇率折算，不改变其记账本位币金额。以公允价值
计量的外币非货币性项目，采用公允价值确定日的即期汇率折算，
由此产生的差额根据非货币性项目的性质计入当期损益或其他综合
收益。5. 固定资产
固定资产仅在与其有关的经济利益很可能流入本公司，且其成本能
够可靠地计量时才予以确认。与固定资产有关的后续支出，符合该
确认条件的，计入固定资产成本，并终止确认被替换部分的账面价值；
否则，在发生时计入当期损益。固定资产按照成本进行初始计量。购置固定资产的成本包括购买价
款、相关税费、使固定资产达到预定可使用状态前所发生的可直接
归属于该项资产的其他支出。固定资产的折旧采用年限平均法计提，
各类固定资产的使用寿命、预计净残值率及年折旧率如下：(4) Foreign currency transactions
Transactions  in  foreign  currencies  are  translated  into  the 
reporting currency accordingly.Foreign  currency  transactions  are  translated  using  the 
exchange rates ruling at the transaction date. Subsequent 
to  initial  recognition,  monetary  assets  and  liabilities 
denominated  in  foreign  currencies  are  translated  at  the 
applicable  exchange  rates  ruling  at  the  balance  sheet 
date. Exchange differences arising from the settlement of 
monetary items or from translation of monetary items at 
balance sheet date are recognised in the profit or loss. Non-
monetary  items  measured  at  historical  cost  in  a  foreign 
currency are translated using the exchange rates ruling at 
the dates of the initial transactions; Non-monetary items 
measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated 
using the exchange rates when the fair value is determined, 
the exchange difference thus resulted is recognised in the 
profit or loss or other comprehensive income of the current 
period.(5) Fixed assets
The fixed assets can be recognised only when the economic 
benefits related to fixed assets are likely to flow into the 
Bank, and the cost of fixed assets can be measured reliably. 
Subsequent expenditure can be recognised as the cost of 
fixed assets when the recognition criteria set above is met, 
and  the  replaced  carrying  amount  shall  be  derecognised. 
Otherwise, such expenditure is to be charged to the profit or 
loss in the period when it is incurred.Fixed  assets  are  initially  measured  at  cost.  The  cost  of 
a  purchased  fixed  asset  comprises  the  purchase  price, 
relevant taxes and any directly attributable expenditure for 
bringing the asset to working condition for its intended use. 
Depreciation is charged to profit or loss on a straight-line 
basis. And the respective estimated useful lives, estimated 
residual values and annual depreciation rates of fixed assets 
are set by the Bank considering the nature and usage of fixed 
assets.6. 在建工程
在建工程成本按实际工程支出确定，包括在建期间发生的各项必要
工程支出以及其他相关费用等。在建工程在达到预定可使用状态时转入固定资产、无形资产或其他
长期资产。7. 无形资产
无形资产仅在与其有关的经济利益很可能流入本公司，且其成本能
够可靠地计量时才予以确认，并以成本进行初始计量。无形资产按照其能为本公司带来经济利益的期限确定使用寿命，无
法预见其为本公司带来经济利益期限的作为使用寿命不确定的无形
资产。本公司的无形资产为软件，其使用年限为 2 至 10 年。使用寿命有限的无形资产，在其使用寿命内采用直线法摊销。本公
司在每个资产负债表日均对使用寿命有限的无形资产的使用寿命及
摊销方法进行复核，必要时进行调整。8. 长期待摊费用
长期待摊费用采用直线法摊销。长期待摊费用根据合同或协议与受益期限孰短原则确定摊销期限，
并平均摊销。如果长期摊销的费用项目不能使以后会计期间受益的，将尚未摊销
的项目的摊余价值全部转入当期损益。(6) Construction in progress
The cost of construction in progress is determined according 
to the actual expenditure for the construction, including all 
necessary expenditure and other related expenses incurred 
during the construction period.The costs are transferred to fixed assets, intangible assets 
or other  long term assets when the asset is ready for its 
intended use.(7) Intangible assets
The  intangible  assets  can  be  recognised  only  when  the 
economic benefits related to intangible assets are likely to 
flow into the Bank, and the cost of intangible assets can be 
measured reliably. While the intangible assets obtained in 
a business combination under common control should be 
measured at fair value if the cost of intangible assets can be 
measured reliably.The useful life of intangible assets is determined according 
to the economic useful lives; those intangible assets with 
unforeseeable economic lives can be classified as intangible 
assets with infinite useful lives.The Bank’s intangible assets comprise computer software 
with 2-10 years’ useful lives.For the intangible assets with finite useful lives, amortisation 
is charged to profit or loss on a straight line basis. The useful 
life and amortisation method for intangible assets with finite 
useful lives are reviewed at each financial reporting date, 
with proper adjustments made by the Bank when necessary.9. 金融工具
金融工具，是指形成一个企业的金融资产，并形成其他单位的金融
负债或权益工具的合同。(8) Long-term deferred expenses
Long-term deferred expenses are amortised by the straight 
line method.金融工具的确认和终止确认
本公司于成为金融工具合同的一方时确认一项金融资产或金融负债。Long-term deferred expenses are amortised on a straight-line 
basis over the shorter of lease period and useful life.使用寿命Estimated usefullives预计净残值率年折旧率Estimated residualAnnual depreciationvaluerate房屋及建筑物
Properties and buildings办公设备
Office equipment电脑设备
Computers运输设备
Motor vehicles50 年5 年3 年5 年----2%20%33%20%本公司在每个资产负债表日均对固定资产的使用寿命、预计净残值
和折旧方法进行复核，必要时进行调整。Residual  values,  useful  lives  and  depreciation  methods 
are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate, at each financial 
reporting date.96满足下列条件的，终止确认金融资产 ( 或金融资产的一部分，或一组
类似金融资产的一部分 )，即从其账户和资产负债表内予以转销：The carrying amount that has not been amortised is charged 
to profit or loss if the expenditure does not bring benefits to 
subsequent accounting periods.(9) Financial instruments 
A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to a 
financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity 
instrument of another entity.Recognition and derecognition of financial instrument
A financial asset or a financial liability is recognised when the 
Bank becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the 
financial instrument.A financial asset (or, where applicable, a part of a financial 
asset or part of a group of similar financial assets) is primarily 
derecognised (i.e., removed from the Bank’s balance sheet) when:(i) the rights to receive cash flows from the financial asset97(i)  收取金融资产现金流量的权利届满；have expired; or(ii)  转移了收取金融资产现金流量的权利，或在“过手协议”下承担
了及时将收取的现金流量全额支付给第三方的义务；并且 (a) 实质上
转让了金融资产所有权上几乎所有的风险和报酬，或 (b) 虽然实质上
既没有转移也没有保留金融资产所有权上几乎所有的风险和报酬，
但放弃了对该金融资产的控制。如果金融负债的责任已履行、撤销或届满，则对金融负债进行终止
确认。如果现有金融负债被同一债权人以实质上几乎完全不同条款
的另一金融负债所取代，或现有负债的条款几乎全部被实质性修改，
则此类替换或修改作为终止确认原负债和确认新负债处理，差额计
入当期损益。以常规方式买卖金融资产，按交易日会计进行确认和终止确认。常
规方式买卖金融资产，是指按照合同条款的约定，在法规或通行惯
例规定的期限内收取或交付金融资产。交易日，是指本公司承诺买
入或卖出金融资产的日期。金融资产分类和计量
本公司的金融资产于初始确认时根据本公司企业管理金融资产的业
务模式和金融资产的合同现金流量特征分类为：以公允价值计量且
其变动计入当期损益的金融资产、以摊余成本计量的金融资产、以
公允价值计量且其变动计入其他综合收益的金融资产。当且仅当本
公司改变管理金融资产的业务模式时，才对所有受影响的相关金融
资产进行重分类。对于以公允价值计量且其变动计入当期损益的金融资产，相关交易
费用直接计入当期损益，其他类别的金融资产相关交易费用计入其
初始确认金额。金融资产的后续计量取决于其分类：以摊余成本计量的债务工具投资金融资产同时符合下列条件的，分类为以摊余成本计量的金融资产：
管理该金融资产的业务模式是以收取合同现金流量为目标；该金融
资产的合同条款规定，在特定日期产生的现金流量仅为对本金和以
未偿付本金金额为基础的利息的支付。此类金融资产采用实际利率
法确认利息收入，其终止确认、修改或减值产生的利得或损失，均
计入当期损益。98(ii) The Bank has transferred its rights to receive cash flows 
from the financial asset, or has assumed an obligation to pay 
the received cash flows in full without material delay to a 
third party under a “pass-through” arrangement; and either 
(a) has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of 
the financial asset, or (b) has neither transferred nor retained 
substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has 
transferred control of the financial asset.A  financial  liability  is  derecognised  when  the  obligation 
under the liability is discharged, cancelled, or expires.  When 
an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the 
same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms 
of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an 
exchange or modification is treated as a derecognition of 
the original liability and a recognition of a new liability, and 
the difference between the respective carrying amounts is 
recognised in profit or loss.A  regular  way  purchases  or  sales  of  financial  assets  are 
recognised and derecognised, as applicable, using trade date 
accounting. A regular way purchase or sale of financial assets 
represents a purchase or sale of a financial asset under a 
contract whose terms require delivery of the asset within the 
time frame established generally by regulation or convention 
in the marketplace concerned. The trade date is the date that 
the Bank committed to purchase or sell a financial asset.Classification and measurement of financial assets
Financial assets of the Bank are initially classified into three 
categories: financial assets at fair value through profit or 
loss, financial assets at amortised cost, and financial assets 
at fair value through other comprehensive income based on 
the Bank’s business model for managing the financial assets 
and  their contractual cash flow characteristics. The  Bank 
reclassified the relating financial assests if and only if the 
Bank changes the business model for managing the financial 
assets.Underlying fee of financial assets at fair value through profit 
or loss are directly recognised in profit or loss, while those 
of other classifications are attributed to the acquisition of 
financial assets.Subsequent measurement of financial assets are based on 
their classification:Debt instrument investment at amortised cost
Financial  assets  are  classified  into  financial  assets  at 
amortised cost when both of the following conditions are 
satisfied: The business model is to collect contractual cash 
flows; the cash flows on specific date are solely payments of 
principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding 
according to the agreement of  the financial  assets. Their 
interest income is recognised using the effective interest 
rate  method.  Gains  or  losses  arising  from  derecognition, 
modification or impairment are recognised in profit or loss.Debt instrument at fair value through other comprehensive以公允价值计量且其变动计入其他综合收益的债务工具投资金融资产同时符合下列条件的，分类为以公允价值计量且其变动计
入其他综合收益的金融资产：本公司管理该金融资产的业务模式是
既以收取合同现金流量为目标又以出售金融资产为目标；该金融资
产的合同条款规定，在特定日期产生的现金流量仅为对本金和以未
偿付本金金额为基础的利息的支付。此类金融资产采用实际利率法
确认利息收入。除利息收入、减值损失及汇兑差额确认为当期损益
外，其余公允价值变动计入其他综合收益。当金融资产终止确认时，
之前计入其他综合收益的累计利得或损失从其他综合收益转出，计
入当期损益。以公允价值计量且其变动计入当期损益的金融资产上述以摊余成本计量的金融资产和以公允价值计量且其变动计入其
他综合收益的金融资产之外的金融资产，分类为以公允价值计量且
其变动计入当期损益的金融资产。对于此类金融资产，采用公允价
值进行后续计量，所有公允价值变动计入当期损益。金融负债分类和计量
本公司的金融负债于初始确认时分类为：以公允价值计量且其变动
计入当期损益的金融负债、其他金融负债。对于以公允价值计量且
其变动计入当期损益的金融负债，相关交易费用直接计入当期损益，
其他金融负债的相关交易费用计入其初始确认金额。金融负债的后续计量取决于其分类：以公允价值计量且其变动计入当期损益的金融负债以公允价值计量且其变动计入当期损益的金融负债，包括交易性金
融负债 ( 含属于金融负债的衍生工具 ) 和初始确认时指定为以公允价
值计量且其变动计入当期损益的金融负债。交易性金融负债（含属于金融负债的衍生工具），按照公允价值进
行后续计量，除与套期会计有关外，所有公允价值变动均计入当期
损益。对于指定为以公允价值计量且其变动计入当期损益的金融负
债，按照公允价值进行后续计量，除由本公司自身信用风险变动引
起的公允价值变动计入其他综合收益之外，其他公允价值变动计入
当期损益；如果由本公司自身信用风险变动引起的公允价值变动计
入其他综合收益会造成或扩大损益中的会计错配，本公司将所有公
允价值变动（包括自身信用风险变动的影响金额）计入当期损益。income
Financial  assets  are  classified  into  Financial  assets  at  fair 
value through other comprehensive income when both of 
the following conditions are satisfied: The business model 
is to collect both the contractual cash flows and cash flows 
arising from the sale of assets; the cash flows on specific 
date are solely payments of principal and interest on the 
principal amount outstanding according to the agreement 
of the financial assets. Their interest income is recognised 
using  the  effective  interest  rate  method.  A  gain  or  loss 
arising from a change in the fair value is recognised as other 
comprehensive income, except for interest income, credit 
impairment  losses  and  foreign  exchange  gains  or  losses, 
which  are  recognised  in  profit  or  loss.  The  gain  or  loss 
recognised in other comprehensive income will be reversed 
and recognised in profit or loss when the financial assets are 
derecognised.Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
Other than the financial assets at amortised cost and the 
financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive 
income mentioned above, financial assets are classified into 
financial  assets  at  fair  value  through  profit  or  loss.  Such 
financial assets are subsequently measured at fair value and 
the gain or loss arising from a change in the fair value will be 
recognised in profit or loss.Classifi cation and measurement of fi nancial liabilities
Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities 
at  fair  value  through  profit  or  loss,  or  other  financial 
liabilities. Underlying fee of financial liabilities at fair value 
through profit or loss are directly recognised in profit or loss, 
while those of other financial liabilities are attributed to the 
acquisition of financial liabilities.Subsequentlg measurement of financial liabilities is based on 
their classification:Financial liabilities at fair value through profi t or loss
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss include 
financial liabilities held for trading (including derivatives that 
are liabilities ) and financial liabilities designated upon initial 
recognition as at fair value through profit or loss.Financial  liabilities  held  for  trading  (including  derivative 
instruments  attributable  to  financial  liabilities)  are 
subsequently measured at fair value.  All changes in fair value 
of such financial liabilities are recognised in profit or loss 
except for the derivatives designated as hedging instruments 
in an effective hedge. Financial liabilities designated at fair 
value through profit or loss are subsequently measured at 
fair value and gains or losses are recognised in profit or loss, 
except for the gains or losses arising from the Bank’s own 
credit  risk  which  are  presented  in  other  comprehensive 
income. If gains or losses arising from the Bank’s own credit 
risk which are presented in other comprehensive income will 
lead to or expand accounting mismatch in profit or loss, the 
Bank will include all the changes in fair value (including the 
amount affected by changes in the Bank’s own credit risk) of 
such financial liabilities in profit or loss.99其他金融负债对于此类金融负债，采用实际利率法，按照摊余成本进行后续计量。金融工具减值
本公司以预期信用损失为基础，对以摊余成本计量的金融资产、以
公允价值计量且其变动计入其他综合收益的债务工具投资、贷款承
诺及财务担保合同进行减值处理并确认损失准备。对于不含重大融资成分的应收款项以及合同资产，本公司运用简化
计量方法，按照相当于整个存续期内的预期信用损失金额计量损失
准备。除上述采用简化计量方法以外的金融资产、贷款承诺及财务担保合
同，本公司在每个资产负债表日评估其信用风险自初始确认后是否
已经显著增加，如果信用风险自初始确认后未显著增加，处于第一
阶段，本公司按照相当于未来 12 个月内预期信用损失的金额计量损
失准备，并按照账面余额和实际利率计算利息收入；如果信用风险
自初始确认后已显著增加但尚未发生信用减值的，处于第二阶段，
本公司按照相当于整个存续期内预期信用损失的金额计量损失准备，
并按照账面余额和实际利率计算利息收入；如果初始确认后发生信
用减值的，处于第三阶段，本公司按照相当于整个存续期内预期信
用损失的金额计量损失准备，并按照摊余成本和实际利率计算利息
收入。Other fi nancial liabilities
Such  financial  liabilities  are  subsequently  measured  at 
amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.Impairment of financial instruments
The Bank recognises a loss for impairment of financial assets 
at amortised cost, debt instrument measured at fair through 
other  comprehensive  income,  loan  commitments  and 
financial guarantee contracts based on their expected credit 
loss.For  receivable  and  contract  assets  without  significant 
financing components, the Bank uses the simplified approach 
to calculate the credit impairment loss, based on lifetime 
expected credit loss.Other  than  the  financial  assets,  loan  commitments  and 
financial  guarantee  contracts  using  simplified  approach, 
the Bank evaluates whether the credit risk has significantly 
increases  since  the  initial  recognition  at  each  financial 
reporting date. When credit risk hasn’t increased significantly 
since the initial recognition, the financial instruments are 
included in Stage I. the Bank calculate impairment allowance 
at  an  amount  equivalent  to  the  ECL  of  the  financial 
instruments for the next 12 months, recognise the interest 
income by using the carrying amount and effective interest 
rate.  When  credit  risk  has  increased  significantly  since 
the initial recognition, but have no objective evidence of 
impairment, the financial intruments are included in Stage II, 
the Bank calculate the impairment allowance at an amount 
equivalent  to  the  ECL  over  the  lifetime  of  the  financial 
instruments,  and  recognise  the  interest  income  by  using 
carrying amount and effective interest rate. If the financial 
assets have objective evidence of impairment, the financial 
instruments are included in Stage III, the Bank calculates the 
impairment allowance at an amount equivalent to the ECL 
over the lifetime of the financial instruments, and recognises 
the interest income by using amortised cost and effective 
interest rate.本公司在每个资产负债表日评估相关金融工具的信用风险自初始确
认后是否已显著增加。本公司以单项金融工具或者具有相似信用风
险特征的金融工具组合为基础，通过比较金融工具在资产负债表日
发生违约的风险与在初始确认日发生违约的风险，以确定金融工具
预计存续期内发生违约风险的变化情况。对于资产负债表日只具有
较低信用风险的金融工具，本公司假设其信用风险自初始确认后未
显著增加。关于本公司对预期信用损失计量的假设等披露参见附注十、1。当对金融资产预期未来现金流量具有不利影响的一项或多项事件发
生时，该金融资产成为已发生信用减值的金融资产。当本公司不再合理预期能够全部或部分收回金融资产合同现金流量
时，本公司直接减记该金融资产的账面余额。金融工具抵销
同时满足下列条件的，金融资产和金融负债以相互抵销后的净额在
资产负债表内列示：具有抵销已确认金额的法定权利，且该种法定
权利是当前可执行的；计划以净额结算，或同时变现该金融资产和
清偿该金融负债。财务担保合同
财务担保合同，是指特定债务人到期不能按照债务工具条款偿付债
务时，发行方向蒙受损失的合同持有人赔付特定金额的合同。财务
担保合同在初始确认时按照公允价值计量，财务担保合同在初始确
认后按照资产负债表日确定的预期信用损失准备金额和初始确认金
额扣除按照收入确认原则确定的累计摊销额后的余额两者孰高者进
行后续计量。衍生金融工具
本公司使用衍生金融工具，衍生金融工具初始以衍生交易合同签订
当日的公允价值进行计量，并以其公允价值进行后续计量。公允价
值为正数的衍生金融工具确认为一项资产，公允价值为负数的确认
为一项负债。除与套期会计有关外，衍生工具公允价值变动产生的利得或损失直
接计入当期损益。At each balance sheet date, the Bank assesses whether the 
credit risk on the relevant financial instruments has increased 
significantly since initial recognition.  The Bank compares the risk 
of a default occurring of a single financial instrument or a group 
of financial instruments with similar credit risk characteristics 
as at the balance sheet date with the risk of a default as at the 
date of initial recognition, to determine changes in the risk of 
a default occurring of the financial instrument in the expected 
lifetime. If the credit risk of financial instruments is low at the 
balance sheet date, the Bank assumes that the credit risk has not 
increased significantly since initial recognition.The disclosure related to the criterion for whether the credit 
risk has  increased significantly, the definition of the impaired 
financial assets and the hypothesis of the measurement of 
expected credit loss refers to Note 10.1.When there are one or more events that have adverse effects 
on the expected future cash flows of a financial asset, the 
financial asset is credit-impaired.When the Bank no longer reasonably expects to collect part 
or all of the contractual cash flows, the Bank writes down 
the carrying amount of the financial assets.Offsetting of financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the 
net amount presented in the balance sheet when and only 
when the Bank currently has a legally enforceable right to 
set off the recognised amounts and intends either to settle 
on a net basis, or to realize the asset and settle the liability 
simultaneously.Financial guarantee contract
Financial  guarantee  contracts  are  those  contracts  that 
require issuer to make specified payments to reimburse the 
holder for a loss it incurs because a specified debtor fails 
to make payment when due in accordance with the original 
or modified terms of a debt instrument. Financial guarantee 
contracts are measured, on initial recognition, at fair value. 
After initial recognition, financial guarantee contracts are 
subsequently  measured  at  the  higher  of,  (i)  the  expected 
credit impairment loss determined on financial reporting 
date  and  (ii)  the  amount  initially  recognised  less,  when 
appropriate, the cumulative amount of income recognised in 
accordance with the revenue principle.Derivative financial instruments
The  Bank  uses  derivative  financial  instruments.  Such 
derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair 
value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered 
into and are subsequently measured at fair value. Derivatives 
are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as 
liabilities when the fair value is negative.Any  profit  or  loss  arising  from  changes  in  fair  value  of 
derivatives are taken directly in profit or loss, except for 
those related to the hedge accounting.100101金融资产转移
本公司已将金融资产所有权上几乎所有的风险和报酬转移给转入方
的，终止确认该金融资产；保留了金融资产所有权上几乎所有的风
险和报酬的，不终止确认该金融资产。本公司既没有转移也没有保留金融资产所有权上几乎所有的风险和
报酬的，分别下列情况处理：放弃了对该金融资产控制的，终止确
认该金融资产并确认产生的资产和负债；未放弃对该金融资产控制
的，按照其继续涉入所转移金融资产的程度确认有关金融资产，并
相应确认有关负债。通过对所转移金融资产提供财务担保方式继续涉入的，按照金融资
产的账面价值和财务担保金额两者之中的较低者，确认继续涉入形
成的资产。财务担保金额，是指所收到的对价中，将被要求偿还的
最高金额。10. 买入返售和卖出回购交易
按回购合约出售的有价证券和票据（“卖出回购”）不予终止确认，
视具体情况在相应资产项目中列示，对交易对手的债务在“卖出回购
金融资产款”中列示。按返售合约买入的有价证券和票据（“买入返售”）
不予以确认，对交易对手的债权在“买入返售金融资产”中列示。出售和回购及买入和返售间的价差采用实际利率法在合约有效期内计
入利润表中的利息支出或利息收入。11. 贵金属
贵金属主要包括黄金和白银。为交易目的而获得的贵金属按照取得时
的公允价值进行初始确认，并以公允价值进行后续计量，相关变动计
入当期损益。12. 资产减值
本公司对除金融资产和递延所得税资产外的资产减值，按以下方法确
定：本公司于资产负债表日判断资产是否存在可能发生减值的迹象，存在
减值迹象的，本公司将估计其可收回金额，进行减值测试。对使用寿
命不确定的无形资产，无论是否存在减值迹象，至少于每年末进行减
值测试。对于尚未达到可使用状态的无形资产，也每年进行减值测试。Transfer of financial assets
A  financial  asset  is  derecognised  when  the  Bank  has 
transferred  substantially  all  the  risks  and  rewards  of  the 
financial  asset  to  the  transferee.  A  financial  asset  is  not 
derecognised when the Bank retains substantially all the risks 
and rewards of the financial asset.When  the  Bank  has  neither  transferred  nor  retained 
substantially all the risks and rewards of the financial asset, it 
either (i) derecognises the financial asset and recognises the 
assets and liabilities created in the transfer when it has not 
retained control of the asset; or (ii) continues to recognise 
the transferred asset to the extent of the Bank's continuing 
involvement,  in  which  case,  the  Bank  also  recognises  an 
associated liability.Continuing involvement that takes the form of a guarantee 
over the transferred financial asset is measured at the lower 
of the original carrying amount of the financial asset and the 
guarantee amount. The guarantee amount is the maximum 
amount of consideration that the Bank could be required to 
repay.(10) Repurchase and reverse repurchase transactions
Securities and bills sold subject to repurchase agreements 
(“Repos”)  continue  to  be  recognised,  and  are  recorded 
as  financial  investments.  The  corresponding  obligation  is 
included  in  “Repurchase  agreements”.  Securities  and  bills 
purchased under agreements to re-sell (“Reverse repos”) are 
not recognised. The receivables are recorded as “Reverse 
repurchase financial assets”, as appropriate.The difference between purchase and sale price is recognised 
as interest expense or interest income in the profit or loss 
over the life of the agreements using the effective interest 
method.(11) Precious metals
Precious metals comprise gold and silver. Precious metals 
acquired  by  the  Bank  for  trading  purposes  are  initially 
measured at fair value and subsequent changes in fair value 
are recorded in the profit or loss.可收回金额根据资产的公允价值减去处置费用后的净额与资产预计
未来现金流量的现值两者之间较高者确定。本公司以单项资产为基础
估计其可收回金额。(12) Impairment of assets
The Bank assesses impairment of assets as follows, except for 
financial assets and deferred tax assets:The  Bank  assesses  whether  there  is  an  indication  that  an 
asset is impaired at each financial reporting date. If any such 
indication exists, the Bank makes an estimate of the asset’s 
recoverable  amount  and  carries  out  impairment  test.  For 
those assets with infinite useful lives, regardless of whether 
the  impairment  indications  exist,  the  impairment  test  is 
made at least annually. For intangible assets that have not yet 
reached their intented use status are also conducted annual 
impairment test.An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of its fair value 
less costs to sell and the present value of estimated future 
discounted cash flows, which is determined on an individual 
basis.102当资产的可收回金额低于其账面价值时，本公司将其账面价值减记至
可收回金额，减记的金额计入当期损益，同时计提相应的资产减值准
备。上述资产减值损失一经确认，在以后会计期间不再转回。13. 预计负债
除了非同一控制下企业合并中的或有对价及承担的或有负债之外，当
与或有事项相关的义务同时符合以下条件，本公司将其确认为预计负债：
(i) 该义务是本公司承担的现时义务；
(ii) 该义务的履行很可能导致经济利益流出本公司；
(iii) 该义务的金额能够可靠地计量。预计负债按照履行相关现时义务所需支出的最佳估计数进行初始计
量，并综合考虑与或有事项有关的风险、不确定性和货币时间价值等
因素。每个资产负债表日对预计负债的账面价值进行复核。有确凿证
据表明该账面价值不能反映当前最佳估计数的，按照当前最佳估计数
对该账面价值进行调整。14. 收入及支出确认原则和方法
利息收入和利息支出
本公司利润表中的“利息收入”和“利息支出”，为按实际利率法确
认的以摊余成本计量及以公允价值计量且其变动计入其他综合收益
的金融资产和以摊余成本计量的金融负债产生的利息收入与支出。实际利率法，是指计算金融资产或金融负债的摊余成本以及将各期利
息收入或利息支出分摊计入各会计期间的方法。实际利率，是指将金
融资产或金融负债在预计存续期间的估计未来现金流量，折现为该金
融资产或金融负债当前账面价值所使用的利率。在确定实际利率时，
本公司在考虑金融资产或金融负债所有合同条款的基础上估计未来
现金流量，但不考虑预期信用损失。本公司支付或收取的、属于实际
利率组成部分的各项收费、交易费用及溢价或折价等，在确定实际利
率时予以考虑。对于购入或源生的已发生信用减值的金融资产，本公司自初始确认起，
按照该金融资产的摊余成本和经信用调整的实际利率计算确定其利息
收入。经信用调整的实际利率，是指将购入或源生的已发生信用减值
的金融资产在预计存续期的估计未来现金流量，折现为该金融资产摊
余成本的利率。If the recoverable amount of the asset is less than its carrying 
value, an impairment loss is recognised immediately in profit 
or loss and the carrying value of the asset reduced by the 
amount of the loss.Once  an  impairment  loss  is  recognised,  it  shall  not  be 
reversed in the subsequent period.(13) Provisions
An  obligation  related  to  a  contingency  is  recognised  as 
provision when all of the following conditions are satisfied 
(except  for  contingent  liability  recognised  in  a  business 
combination not under common control):
(i)   the obligation is a present obligation of the Bank;
(ii)  it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will 
      be required to settle the obligation; and
(iii) the amount of the obligation can be measured reliably.The provision is initially measured at the best estimate of the 
expenditure required to settle the related present obligation. 
Factors  pertaining  to  a  contingency  such  as  the  risks, 
uncertainties and time value of money are taken into account 
as a whole in reaching the best estimate. The Bank reviews 
the carrying amount of a provision at the balance sheet date. 
The carrying amount of a provision will be adjusted when 
there is clear evidence that the amount does not reflect the 
current best estimate.(14) Recognition of income and expense
Interest income and expense
“Interest income” and “interest expense” item in the income 
statement of the Bank are the interest income and expense 
calculated by using the effective interest method on financial 
assets at amortised cost, financial assets at fair value through 
other  comprehensive  income  and  financial  liabilities  at 
amortised cost.The effective interest method is used in the calculation of 
the amortised cost of a financial asset or a financial liability 
and in the allocation and recognition of the interest income 
or interest expense in profit or loss over the relevant period. 
The effective interest rate is that exactly discounts estimated 
future cash flows through the expected life of a financial 
asset  or  financial  liability  to  the  gross  carrying  amount 
of  a  financial  asset  or  the  amortised  cost  of  a  financial 
liability. When calculating the effective interest rate, the 
Bank estimates the expected cash flows by considering all 
contractual terms of the financial instrument but does not 
consider expected credit losses. The calculation includes all 
amounts paid or received by the Bank that are an integral 
part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and all 
other premiums or discounts.For those purchased or originated credit-impaired financial 
assets, the Bank calculates the interest income by applying 
the credit-adjusted effective interest rate to the amortised 
cost of the financial asset from initial recognition. The credit-
adjusted effective interest rate is that exactly discounts the 
estimated future cash flows through the expected life of the 
financial asset to the amortised cost of a financial asset that 
is a purchased or originated credit-impaired financial asset.103对于购入或源生的未发生信用减值、但在后续期间成为已发生信用减
值的金融资产，本公司在后续期间，按照该金融资产的摊余成本和实
际利率计算确定其利息收入。手续费及佣金收入
本公司通过向客户提供各类服务收取手续费及佣金。其中，通过在一
定期间内提供服务收取的手续费及佣金在相应期间内按照履约进度确
认，其他手续费及佣金于相关交易完成时确认。15. 租赁（自 2019 年 1 月 1 日起适用）
租赁的识别
在合同开始日，本公司评估合同是否为租赁或者包含租赁，如果合同
中一方让渡了在一定期间内控制一项或多项已识别资产使用的权利以
换取对价，则该合同为租赁或者包含租赁。为确定合同是否让渡了在
一定期间内控制已识别资产使用的权利，本公司评估合同中的客户是
否有权获得在使用期间内因使用已识别资产所产生的几乎全部经济利
益，并有权在该使用期间主导已识别资产的使用。单独租赁的识别
合同中同时包含多项单独租赁的，本公司将合同予以分拆，并分别各
项单独租赁进行会计处理。同时符合下列条件的，使用已识别资产的
权利构成合同中的一项单独租赁：（1）承租人可从单独使用该资产或将其与易于获得的其他资源一起
使用中获利；（2）该资产与合同中的其他资产不存在高度依赖或高度关联关系。租赁和非租赁部分的分拆
合同中同时包含租赁和非租赁部分的，本公司作为承租人时，对于运
输工具类租赁资产不进行分拆，将各租赁部分及与其相关的非租赁部
分分别合并为租赁进行处理，除以上类别租赁资产外，本公司将租赁
和非租赁部分分拆后进行会计处理。For  those  financial  assets  that  are  not  purchased  or 
originated credit-impaired financial assets but subsequently 
have  become  credit-impaired  financial  assets,  the  Bank 
calculates  the  interest  income  by  applying  the  effective 
interest rate to the amortised cost of the financial asset in 
subsequent reporting periods.Fee and commission income
The Bank earns fee and commission income from a diverse 
range  of  services  it  provides  to  its  customers.  For  those 
services that are provided over a period of time, fee and 
commission  income  is  accrued  in  accordance  with  the 
terms and conditions of the service agreement. For other 
services, fee and commission income is recognised when the 
transactions are completed.(15) Leases (take effect since 2019/1/1)
Identification of leases
At inception of a contract, the Bank assesses whether the 
contract is, or contains, a lease.  A contract is, or contains, 
a lease if the contract conveys the right to control the use 
of  one  or  more  identified  assets  for  a  period  of  time  in 
exchange for consideration.  To assess whether a contract 
conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset 
for a period of time, the Bank assesses whether, throughout 
the period of use, the customer has both of the right to 
obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from use 
of the identified asset and the right to direct the use of the 
identified asset.Identification of separate lease components
For  a  contract  that  contains  multiple  separate  lease 
components,  the  Bank  separates  the  components  of  the 
contract and accounts for each separate lease component.  
The  right  to  use  an  identified  asset  is  a  separate  lease 
component if both:(i) the lessee can benefit from use of the underlying asset 
either on its own or together with other resources that are 
readily available to the lessee; and(ii) the underlying asset is neither highly dependent on, nor 
highly interrelated with, the other underlying assets in the 
contract.Separating lease components and non-lease components
The  Bank  does  not  separate  lease  vehicles  as  a  lessee 
and  instead  accounts  for  each  lease  component  and 
any  associated  non-lease  components  as  a  single  lease 
component,  except  that  the  Bank  accounts  for  the  lease 
components  and  non-lease  components  separately  in 
addition to the underlying assets above.租赁期的评估
租赁期是本公司有权使用租赁资产且不可撤销的期间。本公司有续租
选择权，即有权选择续租该资产，且合理确定将行使该选择权的，租
赁期还包含续租选择权涵盖的期间。本公司有终止租赁选择权，即有
权选择终止租赁该资产，但合理确定将不会行使该选择权的，租赁期
包含终止租赁选择权涵盖的期间。发生本公司可控范围内的重大事件
或变化，且影响本公司是否合理确定将行使相应选择权的，本公司对
其是否合理确定将行使续租选择权、购买选择权或不行使终止租赁选
择权进行重新评估。本公司作为承租人使用权资产本公司使用权资产类别主要包括房屋及建筑物、运输工具。在租赁期开始日，本公司将其可在租赁期内使用租赁资产的权利确
认为使用权资产，包括：（1）租赁负债的初始计量金额；（2）在
租赁期开始日或之前支付的租赁付款额，存在租赁激励的，扣除已
享受的租赁激励相关金额；（3）承租人发生的初始直接费用；（4）
承租人为拆卸及移除租赁资产、复原租赁资产所在场地或将租赁资
产恢复至租赁条款约定状态预计将发生的成本。本公司后续釆用年
限平均法对使用权资产计提折旧。能够合理确定租赁期届满时取得
租赁资产所有权的，本公司在租赁资产剩余使用寿命内计提折旧。
无法合理确定租赁期届满时能够取得租赁资产所有权的，本公司在
租赁期与租赁资产剩余使用寿命两者孰短的期间内计提折旧。本公司按照变动后的租赁付款额的现值重新计量租赁负债，并相应
调整使用权资产的账面价值时，如使用权资产账面价值已调减至零，
但租赁负债仍需进一步调减的，本公司将剩余金额计入当期损益。Assessment of the lease term
The lease term is the non-cancellable period of a lease for 
which the Bank has the right to use an underlying asset.  If 
the Bank has an option to extend the lease, that is, the Bank 
has the right to extend the lease, and is reasonably certain 
to exercise that option, the lease term also includes periods 
covered by an option to extend the lease. If the Bank has 
an option to terminate the lease, that is, the Bank has the 
right to terminate the lease, but is reasonably certain not to 
exercise that option, the lease term includes periods covered 
by an option to terminate the lease. The Bank reassesses 
whether it is reasonably certain to exercise an extension 
option, purchase option, or not to exercise a termination 
option, upon the occurrence of either a significant event 
or a significant change in the circumstances that is within 
the  control  of  the  Bank  and  affects  whether  the  Bank  is 
reasonably  certain  to  exercise  an  option  not  previously 
included in its determination of the lease term.As lesseeRight-of-use assets
The right-of-use assets of the Bank mainly include buildings 
and vehicles.At the commencement date of the lease, the Bank recognises 
a  right-of-use  asset.    The  cost  of  the  right-of-use  asset 
comprises:  (i)  the  amount  of  the  initial  measurement  of 
the  lease  liabilities;  (ii)  any  lease  payments  made  at  or 
before the commencement date of the lease less any lease 
incentives received; (iii) any initial direct cost incurred; and 
(iv) an estimate of costs incurred by the lessee in dismantling 
and  removing  the  underlying  asset,  restoring  the  site  on 
which it is located or restoring the underlying asset to the 
condition required by the terms and conditions of the lease. 
The right-of-use assets are depreciated on a straight-line 
basis  subsequently by the Bank. If the Bank is reasonably 
certain that the ownership of the underlying asset will be 
transferred to the Bank at the end of the lease term, the 
Bank depreciates the asset from the commencement date to 
the end of the useful life of the asset. Otherwise, the bank 
depreciates the assets from the commencement date to the 
earlier of the end of the useful life of the asset or the end of 
the lease term.The Bank remeasures the lease liabilities at the present value 
of  the  changed  lease  payments  and  adjusts  the  carrying 
amount  of  the  right-of-use  assets  accordingly,  when  the 
carrying amount of the right-of-use asset is reduced to zero, 
and there is a further reduction in the measurement of the 
lease liabilities, the Bank recognises the remaining amount of 
the remeasurement in profit or loss.104105短期租赁和低价值资产租赁
本公司将在租赁期开始日，租赁期不超过 12 个月，且不包含购买选
择权的租赁认定为短期租赁；将单项租赁资产为全新资产时价值不
超过 5,000 美元的租赁认定为低价值资产租赁。本公司转租或预期
转租租赁资产的，原租赁不认定为低价值资产租赁。本公司对房屋
及建筑物、运输工具类别的短期租赁和低价值资产租赁选择不确认
使用权资产和租赁负债。在租赁期内各个期间按照直线法计入相关
的资产成本或当期损益，或有租金在实际发生时计入当期损益。16. 租赁（适用于 2018 年度）
实质上转移了与资产所有权相关的全部风险和报酬的租赁为融资租
赁，除此之外的均为经营租赁。作为经营租赁承租人
经营租赁的租金支出，在租赁期内各个期间按照直线法计入相关的
资产成本或当期损益。作为融资租赁承租人
融资租入的资产，于将租赁开始日租赁资产的公允价值与最低租赁付
款额现值两者中较低者作为租入资产的入账价值，将最低租赁付款额
作为长期应付款的入账价值，其差额作为未确认融资费用，在租赁期
内各个期间采用实际利率法进行分摊。或有租金在实际发生时计入当
期损益。Short-term leases and leases of low-value assets
The Bank considers a lease that, at the commencement date 
of the lease, has a lease term of 12 months or less, and does 
not contains any purchase option as a short-term lease; and 
a lease for which the value of the individual underlying asset 
is not more than USD 5000 when it is new as a lease of low-
value assets. If the Bank subleases an asset, or expects to 
sublease an asset, the head lease does not qualify as a lease 
of a low-value asset. The Bank does not recognise the right-
of-use assets and lease liabilities for buildings and vehicles 
short-term leases and low-value assets. The Bank recognises 
lease payments on short-term leases and leases of low-value 
assets in the costs of the related asset or profit or loss on a 
straight-line basis over the lease term.(16) Leases (applicable to 2018)
Leases which transfer substantially all the risks and rewards 
of ownership of the assets to the lessees are classified as 
finance leases. Other leases are classified as operating leases.As operating lessee
When the Bank is a lessee under an operating lease, rental 
payments are charged to the profit or loss on the straight-
line basis over the lease terms.As financial lessee
When the Bank is a lessee under a finance lease, the leased 
assets are capitalised initially at the fair value of the asset or, 
if lower, the present value of the minimum lease payments. 
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in “Other 
liabilities”. Finance charges are charged over the term of the 
lease using an interest rate which reflects a constant rate of 
return. Contingent rental payments are charged to the profit 
or loss when incurred.租赁负债在租赁期开始日，本公司将尚未支付的租赁付款额的现值确认为租
赁负债，短期租赁和低价值资产租赁除外。在计算租赁付款额的现
值时，本公司采用承租人增量借款利率作为折现率。本公司按照固
定的周期性利率计算租赁负债在租赁期内各期间的利息费用，并计
入当期损益，但另有规定计入相关资产成本的除外。未纳入租赁负
债计量的可变租赁付款额于实际发生时计入当期损益，但另有规定
计入相关资产成本的除外。租赁期开始日后，当实质固定付款额发生变动、担保余值预计的应
付金额发生变化、用于确定租赁付款额的指数或比率发生变动、购
买选择权、续租选择权或终止选择权的评估结果或实际行权情况发
生变化时，本公司按照变动后的租赁付款额的现值重新计量租赁负
债。租赁变更
租赁变更是原合同条款之外的租赁范围、租赁对价、租赁期限的变更，
包括增加或终止一项或多项租赁资产的使用权，延长或缩短合同规
定的租赁期等。租赁发生变更且同时符合下列条件的，本公司将该租赁变更作为一
项单独租赁进行会计处理：（1）该租赁变更通过增加一项或多项租赁资产的使用权而扩大了租
赁范围；（2）增加的对价与租赁范围扩大部分的单独价格按该合同情况调整
后的金额相当。Lease liabilities
At the commencement date of the lease, the Bank measures 
the  lease  liabilities  at  the  present  value  of  the  lease 
payments that are not paid at that date, except for short-
term leases and leases of low-value assets. In calculating 
the present value of the lease payments, the Bank uses the 
lessee’s incremental borrowing rate. The Bank calculates the 
interest expenses of the lease liabilities in each period during 
the lease term using the constant periodic rate of interest, 
and recognises such interest expenses in profit or loss, except 
those in the costs of the related asset as required. Variable 
lease payments that are not included in the measurement 
of  the  lease  liabilities  are  recognised  in  profit  or  loss  as 
incurred, except those in the costs of the related asset as 
required.After  the  commencement  date  of  the  lease,  if  there  is 
a  change  on  actual  fixed  payment,  expected  payable  of 
guaranteed residual value, the index or rate used to calculate 
the  lease  payment,  purchase  option,  the  assessment  of 
option to extend the lease, option to terminate the lease or 
actual option exercise situation, the bank will recalculate the 
lease liabilities at the present value of the lease payments 
based changes occurred.Lease modifi cations
Lease modification is a change in the scope of a lease, or the 
consideration for a lease, that was not part of the original 
terms and conditions of the lease, for example, adding or 
terminating the right to use one or more underlying assets, 
or extending or shortening the contractual lease term.租赁变更未作为一项单独租赁进行会计处理的，在租赁变更生效日，
本公司重新确定租赁期，并采用修订后的折现率对变更后的租赁付
款额进行折现，以重新计量租赁负债。在计算变更后租赁付款额的
现值时，本公司采用租赁变更生效日的本公司增量借款利率作为折
现率。The Bank accounts for a lease modification as a separate 
lease if both:(i)  the  modification  increases  the  scope  of  the  lease  by 
adding the right to use one or more underlying assets; and就上述租赁负债调整的影响，本公司相应调整使用权资产的账面价
值。(ii) the consideration for the lease increases by an amount 
commensurate with the stand-alone price for the increase in 
scope and any appropriate adjustments to that stand-alone 
price to reflect the circumstances of the particular contract.For  a  lease  modification  that  is  not  accounted  for  as  a 
separate lease, at the effective date of the lease modification 
the  Bank  remeasures  the  lease  liabilities  by  discounting 
the revised  lease payments using  a  revised discount rate. 
The  revised  discount  rate  is  determined  as  the  lessee’s 
incremental  borrowing  rate  at  the  effective  date  of  the 
modicication.For  the  above  lease  modification,  the  Bank  makes  a 
corresponding adjustment to the right-of-use asset.10610717. 政府补助
政府补助在能够满足其所附的条件并且能够收到时，予以确认。政府
补助为货币性资产的，按照收到或应收的金额计量。政府补助为非货
币性资产的，按照公允价值计量；公允价值不能可靠取得的，按照名
义金额计量。与收益相关的政府补助，用于补偿以后期间的相关成本
费用或损失的，确认为递延收益，并在确认相关成本费用或损失的期
间计入当期损益或冲减相关成本；用于补偿已发生的相关成本费用或
损失的，直接计入当期损益或冲减相关成本。与资产相关的政府补助，
冲减相关资产的账面价值；或确认为递延收益，在相关资产使用寿命
内按照合理、系统的方法分期计入损益 ( 但按照名义金额计量的政府
补助，直接计入当期损益 )，相关资产在使用寿命结束前被出售、转让、
报废或发生毁损的，尚未分配的相关递延收益余额转入资产处置当期
的损益。18. 股份支付
本公司的股份支付为以权益结算的股份支付。以权益结算的股份支付换取员工提供服务的，以授予员工权益工具的
公允价值计量。授予后立即可行权的，在授予日按照公允价值计入相
关费用，相应增加资本公积；完成等待期内的服务或达到规定业绩条
件才可行权的，在等待期内每个资产负债表日，本公司根据最新取得
的可行权员工人数变动、是否达到规定业绩条件等后续信息对可行权
权益工具数量作出最佳估计，以此为基础，按照授予日的公允价值，
将当期取得的服务计入相关费用，相应增加资本公积。权益工具的公
允价值采用三叉树模型确定。(17) Government subsidies
Government  subsidies  will  be  recognised  if  the  Bank  can 
receive  government  subsidies  and  meet  the  conditions 
attached to government subsidies. If government subsidies 
are monetary assets, they shall be measured in the light of 
the amount received or receivable. If a government subsidy 
is a non-monetary asset, it shall be measured at its fair value; 
and if its fair value cannot be obtained in a reliable way, it 
shall be measured at a nominal amount.Government subsidies 
associated with income which are used as compensation for 
future costs, expenses or losses are recognized as deferred 
expenditures and shall be recorded in future profits and losses 
to reverse the related costs where the relevant costs, expenses 
or losses are recognized. Government subsidies associated 
with income which are used to compensate the related costs, 
expenses or losses incurred by the Bank are directly included 
in current profit and loss or used to reverse the related costs. 
Government subsidies associated with assets shall set off 
the book value of related assets or be recognized as deferred 
expenditures. Government subsidies related to assets are 
recognized as deferred expenditures to be distributed over the 
useful lives of the relevant assets and shall be recorded in the 
profit or loss by stages in a reasonable and systematic manner. 
Government subsidies measured in nominal amounts, shall be 
directly recognized in current profits and losses. Where relevant 
assets are sold, transferred, scraped or damaged before the end 
of their lives, balance of the unallocated deferred expenditures 
shall be recognized in current profit and loss on asset disposal.对于最终未能行权的股份支付，不确认费用，除非行权条件是市场条
件或非可行权条件，此时无论是否满足市场条件或非可行权条件，只
要满足所有可行权条件中的非市场条件，即视为可行权。(18) Share-based payment
The Bank’s share-based compensation programme is measured 
as an equity-settled share-based payment.如果修改了以权益结算的股份支付的条款，至少按照未修改条款的情
况确认取得的服务。此外，任何增加所授予权益工具公允价值的修改，
或在修改日对员工有利的变更，均确认取得服务的增加。The  equity-settled  share-based  payment  is  measured  by 
reference to the fair value of the equity instruments granted. 
Where the equity instruments granted vest immediately, the 
Bank recognises the expense in full at the fair value on grant 
date with a corresponding increase in capital reserve. Where 
the equity instruments granted vest upon the fulfilment of 
service period or performance conditions, the Bank makes 
a best estimate at the number of equity instruments that 
will ultimately vest, at each financial reporting date of the 
vesting period, based on the latest information on eligible 
employees and performance conditions, and recognise the 
expense pertaining to the current period at the fair value on 
grant date with a corresponding increase in capital reserve. 
The fair values of the equity instruments are estimated using 
the Trinomial valuation methodology.No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately 
vest, except for equity-settled transactions where vesting is 
conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition, which 
are treated  as vesting irrespective of  whether or not the 
market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all 
other performance and service conditions are satisfied.Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified, 
as a minimum, an expense is recognised as if the terms had 
not been modified. An additional expense is recognised for 
any modification which increases the total fair value of the 
share–based  payments,  or  is  otherwise  beneficial  to  the 
employee as measured at the date of modification.如果取消了以权益结算的股份支付，则于取消日作为加速行权处理，
立即确认尚未确认的金额。员工能够选择满足非可行权条件但在等待
期内未满足的，作为取消以权益结算的股份支付处理。但是，如果授
予新的权益工具，并在新权益工具授予日认定所授予的新权益工具是
用于替代被取消的权益工具的，则以与处理原权益工具条款和条件修
改相同的方式，对所授予的替代权益工具进行处理。19. 职工薪酬
职工薪酬，是指本公司为获得职工提供的服务或解除劳动关系而给予
的各种形式的报酬或补偿。职工薪酬包括短期薪酬、离职后福利、辞
退福利和其他长期职工福利。短期薪酬
工资与奖金、社会保障福利及其他短期员工福利会于本公司员工提供
服务的期间计提。离职后福利（设定提存计划）
本公司的员工参加由当地政府管理的养老保险和失业保险，相应支出
在发生时计入当期损益。本公司员工还可自愿参加本公司设立的企业年金计划。本公司按员工
工资的一定比例向年金计划缴款，相应支出计入当期损益。20. 所得税
所得税包括当期所得税和递延所得税。除与直接计入所有者权益的交
易或事项相关的所得税计入所有者权益外，其他所得税均计入当期损
益。本公司对于当期和以前期间形成的当期所得税负债或资产，按照税法
规定计算的预期应交纳或返还的所得税金额计量。本公司根据资产与负债于资产负债表日的账面价值与计税基础之间
的暂时性差异，以及未作为资产和负债确认但按照税法规定可以确定
其计税基础的项目的账面价值与计税基础之间的差额产生的暂时性差
异，采用资产负债表债务法计提递延所得税。各种应纳税暂时性差异均据以确认递延所得税负债。Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as 
if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense 
not yet recognised for the award is recognised immediately. 
This includes any award where non-vesting conditions within 
the control of the employees are not met. However, if a new 
award is substituted for the cancelled award, and designated 
as a replacement award on the date that it is granted, the 
cancelled and new compensation are treated as if they were 
a modification of the original award.(19) Employee benefits
Employee  benefits  are  all  forms  of  consideration  or 
compensation  given  by  the  Bank  in  exchange  for  service 
rendered  by  employees  or  for  the  termination  of 
employment, including short-term employee benefits, post-
employment benefits, termination benefits and other long-
term benefits.Short-term employee benefits
Salaries and bonuses, social security contributions and other 
short-term employee benefits are accrued in the period in 
which services have been rendered by the employees of the 
Bank.Post-employment benefits (defined contribution plan)
Employees of the Bank participate in the retirement insurance 
plan,  and  unemployment  insurance  plan  administered  by 
the local government, and the contribution is recognised to 
profit or loss of that period.Employees of the Bank can participate in the annuity plan 
established  by  the  Bank  on  a  voluntary  basis.  The  Bank 
contributes  to  the  annuity  at  a  certain  percentage  of 
employees’ salary, and recognises the cost in the profit or 
loss accordingly.(20) Income tax
Income tax includes current tax and deferred tax. Current 
income  tax  and  movements  in  deferred  tax  balances  are 
recognised in profit or loss except that it relates to items 
recognised  directly  in  equity,  in  which  case  the  tax  is 
recognised directly in equity.Current  income  tax  assets  and  liabilities  for  the  current 
and  prior  periods  are  measured  at  the  amount  expected 
to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities in 
accordance with relevant tax regulations.Deferred income tax is provided, using the liability method, 
on  all  temporary  differences  between  the  tax  bases  of 
assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial 
reporting purposes at the balance sheet date.Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable 
temporary differences.108109对于可抵扣暂时性差异、能够结转以后年度的可抵扣亏损和税款抵减，
本公司以很可能取得用来抵扣可抵扣暂时性差异、可抵扣亏损和税款
抵减的未来应纳税所得额为限，确认由此产生的递延所得税资产。本公司于资产负债表日，对于递延所得税资产和递延所得税负债，依
据税法规定，按照预期收回该资产或清偿该负债期间的适用税率计量，
并反映资产负债表日预期收回资产或清偿负债方式的所得税影响。于资产负债表日，本公司对递延所得税资产的账面价值进行复核。如
果未来期间很可能无法获得足够的应纳税所得额用以抵扣递延所得
税资产的利益，减记递延所得税资产的账面价值。于资产负债表日，
本公司重新评估未确认的递延所得税资产，在很可能获得足够的应纳
税所得额可供所有或部分递延所得税资产转回的限度内，确认递延所
得税资产。同时满足下列条件时，递延所得税资产和递延所得税负债以抵销后的
净额列示：拥有以净额结算当期所得税资产及当期所得税负债的法定
权利；递延所得税资产和递延所得税负债是与同一税收征管部门对同
一应纳税主体征收的所得税相关或者对不同的纳税主体相关，但在未
来每一具有重要性的递延所得税资产和递延所得税负债转回的期间
内，涉及的纳税主体体意图以净额结算当期所得税资产及当期所得税
负债或是同时取得资产、清偿债务。21. 公允价值计量
本公司于每个资产负债表日以公允价值计量衍生金融工具、交易性金
融资产、其他以公允价值计量且其变动计入当期损益的金融资产、其
他债权投资以及交易性金融负债。公允价值，是指市场参与者在计量
日发生的有序交易中，出售一项资产所能收到或者转移一项负债所需
支付的价格。本公司以公允价值计量相关资产或负债，假定出售资产
或者转移负债的有序交易在相关资产或负债的主要市场进行；不存在
主要市场的，本公司假定该交易在相关资产或负债的最有利市场进行。
主要市场 ( 或最有利市场 ) 是本公司在计量日能够进入的交易市场。
本公司采用市场参与者在对该资产或负债定价时为实现其经济利益最
大化所使用的假设。本公司采用在当前情况下适用并且有足够可利用数据和其他信息支持
的估值技术，优先使用相关可观察输入值，只有在可观察输入值无法
取得或取得不切实可行的情况下，才使用不可观察输入值。Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible 
temporary differences, carryforward of unused tax credits 
and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that 
taxable profit will be available against which the deductible 
temporary differences, and the carryforward of unused tax 
credits and unused tax losses can be utilised.Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax 
rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset 
is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates (and 
tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by 
the balance sheet date.The  carrying  amount  of  deferred  income  tax  assets  is 
reviewed at each financial reporting date and reduced to the 
extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable 
profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred 
income  tax  asset  to  be  utilised.  Unrecognised  deferred 
income tax assets are reassessed at each financial reporting 
date and are recognised to the extent that it has become 
probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred 
tax asset to be recovered.Deferred  tax  assets  and  deferred  tax  liabilities  are  offset 
when fulfilling of the following conditions:
(i) A legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax 
assets against current tax liabilities. 
(ii) The deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are 
related to the income tax levied on the same taxpayer by 
the same tax administrative department or are related to 
different taxpayers but, within each future period of reversal 
of important deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities, 
the taxpayers involved intend to settle current tax assets and 
current tax liabilities or acquire assets and liquidate liabilities 
at the same time.(21) Fair value measurement
At  each  financial  reporting  date,  the  Bank  measures  its 
derivatives,  Financial  assets  at  fair  value  through  profit 
or loss, other debt instrument at fair value through other 
comprehensive income and financial liabilities at fair value 
through  profit  or  loss.  Fair  value  is  the  price  that  would 
be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in 
an orderly transaction between market participants at the 
measurement  date.  The  fair  value  measurement  is  based 
on  the  assumption  that  the  orderly  transaction  to  sell 
the asset or transfer the liability takes place either in the 
principal market for the asset or liability, or in the absence 
of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for 
the asset or liability. The principal or the most advantageous 
market  must  be  accessible  to  the  Bank.  The  fair  value  of 
an  asset  or  a  liability  is  measured  using  the  assumption 
that market participants would use when pricing the asset 
or liability, assuming that market participants act in their 
economic best interest.The Bank uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in 
the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available 
to  measure  the  fair  value.  Use  of  observable  inputs  is 
maximized and unobservable inputs will only be used when 
observable inputs are not available or obtaining observable 
inputs becomes unpractical.在财务报表中以公允价值计量或披露的资产和负债，根据对公允价值
计量整体而言具有重要意义的最低层次输入值，确定所属的公允价值
层次：在计量日能够取得的相同资产或负债在活跃市场上未经调整的
报价为第一层次输入值；除第一层次输入值外相关资产或负债直接或
间接可观察的输入值为第二层次输入值；相关资产或负债的不可观察
输入值为第三层次输入值。每个资产负债表日，本公司对在财务报表中确认的持续以公允价值计
量的资产和负债进行重新评估，以确定是否在公允价值计量层次之间
发生转换。22. 关联方
一方控制、共同控制另一方或对另一方施加重大影响，以及两方或两
方以上同受一方控制、共同控制或重大影响的，构成关联方。仅同受国家控制而不存在其他关联方关系的企业，不构成本公司的关
联方。23. 受托业务
本公司以被任命者、受托人或代理人等受托身份进行活动时，该委托
活动所产生的资产与该资产偿还客户的保证未包括在本报表。24. 或有负债
或有负债指过去的交易或者事项形成的潜在义务，其存在须通过未来
不确定事项的发生或不发生予以证实；或过去的交易或者事项形成的
现时义务，履行该义务不是很可能导致经济利益流出或该义务的金额
不能可靠计量，因此该义务不予确认。本公司对或有负债不予确认，仅在附注中加以披露。如情况发生变化
使得该事项很有可能导致经济利益的流出时，则将其确认为预计负债。25. 重大会计判断和会计估计
在本公司执行会计政策的过程中，管理层对财务报表未来不确定事项
作出了判断、估计和假设。这些判断、估计和假设会影响收入、费用、
资产和负债的列报金额及其披露。这些估计和假设的不确定性所导致
的结果可能造成对未来受影响的资产或负债的账面金额进行重大调
整。For assets and liabilities measured and disclosed at fair value, 
the fair value measurement is categorised in its entirety in 
the same level of the fair value hierarchy as the lowest level 
input that is significant to the entire measurement: Level 
1  inputs  are  quoted  prices  (unadjusted)  in  active  markets 
for identical assets or liabilities that are accessible at the 
measurement  date;  Level  2  inputs  are  inputs  other  than 
quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable 
for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly; Level 3 
inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.For assets and liabilities held at the end of the balance sheet 
date that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis, the 
Bank continues to make assessment as to whether there is 
transfer between different levels of the fair value hierarchy.(22) Related parties
Parties  are  considered  to  be  related  if  one  party  has  the 
ability, directly or indirectly, to control the other party or 
exercise significant influence over the other party.  Parties are 
also considered to be related if they are subject to common 
control or common significant influence.The state-owned enterprises without other relationships do 
not constitute related parties.(23) Entrusted business
Where  the  Bank  acts  in  an  entrusted  business  such  as 
nominee, custodian or agent, assets arising thereon together 
with related undertakings to return such assets to customers 
are excluded from the financial statements.(24) Contingent liabilities
A contingent liability is a possible obligation that arises from 
past events and whose existence will only be confirmed by 
the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain 
future events not wholly within the control of the Bank. It 
can also be a present obligation arising from past events that 
is not recognised because it is not probable that an outflow 
of economic resources will be required or the amount of 
obligation cannot be measured reliably.The  Bank  will  not  recognise  contingent  liabilities,  but 
disclosed in the notes to financial statements. In case the 
condition changes, which led to the outflow of economic 
resources is probable, provisions will be made.(25) Significant accounting judgment and estimates
In  the  process  of  applying  the  accounting  policies,  the 
management  has  used  its  judgments  and  made  estimates 
and assumptions of the effects of uncertain future events 
on the financial statements. The use of judgments, estimates 
and assumptions will affect the amount of income, expense, 
assets and liabilities presented and disclosed. The uncertainty 
of such estimates and assumptions might have a significant 
risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts 
of assets and liabilities in the future.110111判断
在应用本公司的会计政策的过程中，管理层作出了以下对财务报表所
确认的金额具有重大影响的判断：业务模式金融资产于初始确认时的分类取决于本公司管理金融资产的业务模
式，在判断业务模式时，本公司考虑包括企业评价和向关键管理人员
报告金融资产业绩的方式、影响金融资产业绩的风险及其管理方式以
及相关业务管理人员获得报酬的方式等。在评估是否以收取合同现金
流量为目标时，本公司需要对金融资产到期日前的出售原因、时间、
频率和价值等进行分析判断。合同现金流量特征金融资产于初始确认时的分类取决于金融资产的合同现金流量特征，
需要判断合同现金流量是否仅为对本金和以未偿付本金为基础的利息
的支付时，包含对货币时间价值的修正进行评估时，需要判断与基准
现金流量相比是否具有显著差异、对包含提前还款特征的金融资产，
需要判断提前还款特征的公允价值是否非常小等。估计的不确定性
以下为于资产负债表日有关未来的关键假设以及估计不确定性的其他
关键来源，可能会导致未来会计期间资产和负债账面金额重大调整。金融工具减值
2018 年 1 月 1 日之后，本公司采用预期信用损失模型对金融工具的减
值进行评估，应用预期信用损失模型需要做出重大判断和估计，需考
虑所有合理且有依据的信息，包括前瞻性信息。在做出这些判断和估
计时，本公司根据历史还款数据结合经济政策、宏观经济指标、行业
风险等因素推断债务人信用风险的预期变动。不同的估计可能会影响
减值准备的计提，已计提的减值准备可能并不等于未来实际的减值损
失金额。Judgment
In  the  process  of  applying  the  accounting  policies,  the 
management  make  following  judgments  which  has 
significant impact on the amounts recognised in the financial 
statements:Business model
Financial assets are initially classified based on the Bank’s 
business  model  for  managing  the  financial  assets.  The 
Bank  judges  the  business  model,  with  the  consideration 
of  enterprise  evaluation,  the  reporting  mode  to  key 
management, related risk and corresponding risk management 
method  of  financial  assets  performance,  and  the  reward 
system of related business personnel. The Bank analyse and 
judge  the  reason,  timing,  frequency  and  value  of  selling 
financial assets before maturity date when judging whether 
the business model is to collect contractual cash flows or 
not.Characteristics of the contractual cash f ows
Financial  assets  are  initially  classified  based  on  their 
contractual cash flow characteristics. When judging whether 
the contractual cash flow are solely payments of principal 
and  interest  on  the  principal  amount  outstanding,  the 
considerations  contain:  (i)judging  whether  there  exists 
significant difference compared with the benchmark cash 
flow, when evaluating the modification of the time value 
of  the  money,  (ii)  judging  whether  fair  value  of  the  early 
repayment characteristics is immaterial for financial assets 
with early repayment characteristics.Uncertainty of estimates
The  following  items  are  the  key  hypothesis  about  the 
future and other key source of uncertainty of estimates on 
financial reporting date. It may cause significant modification 
on  carrying  amount  of  assets  and  liabilities  in  the  future 
accounting period.Impairment of fi nancial instruments
The Bank uses the expected credit loss model to evaluate 
the impairment of financial instruments since 1 January 2018. 
Applying  the  expected  credit  loss  model  need  to  make 
significant judgment and estimates with consideration of 
all reasonable information with proper basis, including the 
forward-looking information. When making those judgment 
and  estimates,  the  Bank  deduces  the  expected  changes 
of obligor’s credit risk with consideration of the historical 
repayment  data  combined  with  the  economic  policy, 
macroeconomic indicators, industry risk and etc. Different 
estimates may affect the impairment provision. The provision 
for impairment may not equal amount of impairment losses 
in the future.112除金融资产之外的非流动资产减值本公司于资产负债表日对除金融资产之外的非流动资产判断是否存在
可能发生减值的迹象。对使用寿命不确定的无形资产，除每年进行的
减值测试外，当其存在减值迹象时，也进行减值测试。其他除金融资
产之外的非流动资产，当存在迹象表明其账面金额不可收回时，进行
减值测试。当资产或资产组的账面价值高于可收回金额，即公允价值
减去处置费用后的净额和预计未来现金流量的现值中的较高者，表明
发生了减值。公允价值减去处置费用后的净额，参考公平交易中类似
资产的销售协议价格或可观察到的市场价格，减去可直接归属于该资
产处置的增量成本确定。预计未来现金流量现值时，管理层必须估计
该项资产或资产组的预计未来现金流量，并选择恰当的折现率确定未
来现金流量的现值。递延所得税资产在很可能有足够的应纳税所得额用以抵扣可抵扣亏损的限度内，应就
所有尚未利用的可抵扣亏损确认递延所得税资产。这需要管理层运用
大量的判断来估计未来取得应纳税所得额的时间和金额，结合纳税筹
划策略，以决定应确认的递延所得税资产的金额。金融工具的公允价值对于存在活跃市场的金融工具，本公司优先采用活跃市场的报价确定
其公允价值。对于不存在活跃市场的金融工具，本公司采用估值技术
确定其公允价值。估值技术包括参考熟悉情况并自愿交易的各方最近
进行的市场交易中使用的价格、参照实质上相同的其他金融工具的当
前公允价值和现金流量折现法等。在可行的情况下，估值技术尽可能
使用市场参数。然而，当缺乏市场参数时，管理层需就自身和交易对
手的信贷风险、市场波动率、相关性等方面作出估计。这些相关假设
的变化会对金融工具的公允价值产生影响。金融工具终止确认于金融工具转移交易中，本公司管理层需就与所转移金融工具所有权
有关的风险及报酬进行分析与判断，并根据分析的结果进行相应的账
务处理。承租人增量借款利率本公司采用承租人增量借款利率作为折现率计算租赁付款额的现值。
确定增量借款利率时，本公司根据所处经济环境，以可观察的利率作
为确定增量借款利率的参考基础，在此基础上，根据自身情况、标的
资产情况、租赁期和租赁负债金额等租赁业务具体情况对参考利率进
行调整以得出适用的增量借款利率。Impairment of non-current assets besides fi nancial assets
Non-current assets other than financial-assets are reviewed 
for  impairment  on  financial  reporting  date.  When  the 
carrying amount of an  asset is greater than its estimated 
recoverable amount, it is written down immediately to its 
recoverable amount. For intangible assets with indefinite 
useful lives, the impairment test is made annually and when 
impairment indications exist. For other non-current assets 
besides financial assets, the impairment test is made when 
there  is  an  indication  that  their  carrying  amount  is  not 
recoverable.  When  the  carrying  amount  of  an  asset  or  a 
group of assets is higher than their recoverable amount, i.e. 
higher of its fair value less costs to sell and the present value 
of estimated future discounted cash flows, it is indicated that 
the impairment losses have occurred. Fair value less costs 
to sell refers to the selling contract price from fair trading 
of  similar  asset  or  the  observable  market  price,  less  the 
incremental costing directly attributes to the asset disposal. 
When  estimating  the  present  value  of  future  discounted 
cash flows. The management must estimate the future cash 
flow of the asset or the group of assets, and choose a proper 
discount rate to determine the present value.Deferred income tax assets
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all unused tax losses 
to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be 
available against which the losses can be utilised. Significant 
management judgement is required to determine the amount 
of deferred tax assets that can be recognised, based upon 
the likely timing and level of future taxable profits together 
with future tax planning strategies.Fair value of fi nancial instruments
The Bank establishes fair value of financial instruments with 
reference to a quoted market price in an active market or, if 
there is no active market, using valuation techniques. These 
valuation techniques include the use of recent arm’s length 
transactions,  observable  prices  for  similar  instruments, 
discounted cash flow analysis using risk-adjusted interest 
rates, and commonly used market pricing models. Whenever 
possible  these  models  use  observable  market  inputs  and 
data including, for example, interest rate yield curves, foreign 
currency rates and option volatilities. The results of using 
valuation  techniques  are  calibrated  against  the  industry 
practice and observable current market transactions in the 
same or similar instruments.Derecognition of fi nancial instruments
The  Bank  assesses  and  judges  on  the  extent  to  which  it 
retains the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial 
instruments for the transferred transactions entered into, and 
make relevant accounting treatments accordingly.Lessee’s incremental borrowing rate
The Bank measures the lease liability at the present value of 
the lease payments discounted using the lessee’s incremental 
borrowing rate. According to the economic environment, the 
Bank takes the observable interest rate as the reference basis 
for determining the incremental borrowing rate, then adjusts 
the observable interest rate based on its own circumstances, 
underlying assets, lease terms and amounts of lease liabilities 
to determine the applicable incremental borrowing rate.11326. 会计政策和会计估计变更
新租赁准则
2018 年，财政部颁布了修订的《企业会计准则第 21 号——租赁》（简
称“新租赁准则”），新租赁准则采用与现行融资租赁会计处理类似
的单一模型，要求承租人对除短期租赁和低价值资产租赁以外的所有
租赁确认使用权资产和租赁负债，并分别确认折旧和利息费用。本公
司自 2019 年 1 月 1 日开始按照新修订的租赁准则进行会计处理，对首
次执行日前已存在的合同，选择不重新评估其是否为租赁或者包含租
赁，并根据衔接规定，对可比期间信息不予调整，按照与租赁负债相
等的金额计量使用权资产，并根据预付租金进行必要调整。首次执行
日，本公司确认租赁负债人民币 59,179,508 元和使用权资产净值人民
币 60,690,271 元，对期初留存收益影响金额为人民币 0 元。（1）对于首次执行日之前的融资租赁，本公司按照融资租入资产和应
付融资租赁款的原账面价值，分别计量使用权资产和租赁负债；（2）对于首次执行日之前的经营租赁，本公司根据剩余租赁付款额
按首次执行日的增量借款利率折现的现值计量租赁负债，并根据每项
租赁按照与租赁负债相等的金额，并根据预付租金进行必要调整计量
使用权资产；（3）本公司按照附注四、25 对使用权资产进行减值测试并进行相应
的会计处理。本公司对首次执行日之前租赁资产属于低价值资产的经营租赁或将于
12 个月内完成的经营租赁，采用简化处理，未确认使用权资产和租赁
负债。(26) Change in accounting policy and estimates
The New Leases Standard
In 2018, the MOF issued revised Accounting Standard for Business 
Enterprises No. 21 – Leases (the “New Leases Standard”).  The 
New Leases Standard introduces a single model similar to the 
current accounting treatment of finance leases, requiring the 
lessee to recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities 
for all the leases, except for short-term leases and leases of 
low-value assets, and recognise depreciation and interest 
expense,  respectively. The Bank has accounted for leases 
under the revised leases standard since 1 January 2019. For the 
contracts which existed before the first implementation date, 
the Bank chooses not to reevaluate whether the contract is, 
or contains, a lease. According to the New Leases Standard, 
the comparative information is not restated. Instead,  the 
Bank measures the righ-of-use assets at an amount equal 
to  the  lease  liabilities,    adjusted  by  any  prepaid  amount. 
On the first implementation date, the Bank recognized the 
lease liabilities of RMB59,179,508, the net value of right-of-
use assets of RMB60,690,271 and zero impact on retained 
earnings at the beginning of 2019.(1) for leases previously classified as finance leases, the Bank 
recognised the right-of-use asset and the lease liabilities 
at  the  carrying  amount  of  the  lease  assets  and  lease 
liabilities under the original standards applicable on the first 
implementation date;(2)  for  leases  previously  classified  as  operating  leases, 
the Bank recognised lease liabilities based on the present 
value of the remaining lease payments discounted at the 
incremental borrowing rate on first implementation date, and 
measured right-of-use assets based on the amount equal to 
the lease liabilities, adjusted by any related prepaid amount; 
and(3) the Bank applied Note 4.25 to perform impairment test 
for right-of-use assets and to account for the impairment 
loss identified.For operating leases of low-value assets and operating leases 
for which the lease term ends within 12 months of the initial 
application  date,  the  Bank  applied  a  simplified  approach 
instead  of  recognising  the  right-of-use  assets  and  lease 
liabilities.114对于 2018 年财务报表中披露的重大经营租赁尚未支付的最低租赁付
款额，本公司按 2019 年 1 月 1 日本公司作为承租人的增量借款利率折
现的现值，与 2019 年 1 月 1 日计入资产负债表的租赁负债的差异调整
过程如下：For  the  unpaid  part  of  minimum  lease  payments  for 
significant operating leases as at 31 December 2018, the Bank 
adjusted the differences between the present value of the 
remaining  lease  payments  discounted  at  the  incremental 
borrowing  rate  and  the  lease  liabilities  recognised  in  the 
balance sheet as at 1 January 2019 as following:2018年12月31日经营租赁最低租赁付款额Minimum lease payments for significant operating leases as at 31 
December 2018减：采用简化处理的最低租赁付款额-短期租赁Less: Short-term leases with lease term that ends within 12 months减：采用简化处理的最低租赁付款额-低价值资产租赁Less: Leases of low-value assets with lease term that ends in more than 12 
months减：2019年1月1日因利率折现而产生的影响Less: The effect of incremental borrowing rate as at 1 January 2019加：2018年12月31日应付融资租赁款Add: Finance lease payables as at 31 December 20182019年1月1日租赁负债2019年1月1日使用权资产净值Lease liabilities as at 1 January 2019Net value of right-of-use assets as at 1 January 2019执行新租赁准则对 2019 年 1 月 1 日资产负债表项目的影响如下：
The effect of implementation of the New Leases Standard 
on the balance sheet as at 1 January 2019 is as follows:公司资产负债表 Balance Sheet使用权资产 Right-of-use assets租赁负债Lease liabilities固定资产Fixed assets报表数
Carrying amount假设按原准则
Under the original standard60,690,27159,179,50832,718,055152,587,834--36,483,95036,483,950执行新租赁准则对 2019 年财务报表的影响如下：
The effect of implementation of the New Leases Standard 
on the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2019 is as follows:
公司资产负债表 Balance Sheet使用权资产 Right-of-use assets租赁负债Lease liabilities固定资产Fixed assets报表数
Carrying amount假设按原准则
Under the original standard72,213,75570,937,70632,665,882175,817,343--36,315,90336,315,903人民币元
RMB130,338,42067,848,131-3,310,781-59,179,50860,690,271影响
Effect60,690,27159,179,508(3,765,895)116,103,884影响
Effect72,213,75570,937,706(3,650,021)139,501,440115公司利润表   Income Statement利息支出Interest expense业务及管理费 General and administrative expense报表数
Carrying amount假设按原准则
Under the original standard1,537,936,8191,068,961,7882,606,898,6071,535,011,6571,070,623,3202,605,634,977影响
Effect2,925,162(1,661,532)1,263,630此外，首次执行日开始本公司将偿还租赁负债本金和利息所支付的
现金在现金流量表中计入筹资活动现金流出，支付的采用简化处理
的短期租赁付款额和低价值资产租赁付款额以及未纳入租赁负债计
量的可变租赁付款额仍然计入经营活动现金流出。In addition, after intitial application, the cash payments for 
the principal and interest of the lease liabilities are classified 
within financing activities, and the payments for short-term 
leases, leases of low-value assets and variable lease payments 
not included in the measurement of the lease liabilities are 
classified within operating activities.五、税项5. Taxation本公司本年度主要税项及其税率列示如下：The major categories of tax applicable to the Bank and the 
respective  tax  rates  for  the  current  financial  year  are  as 
follows:增值税
Value-added tax城市维护建设税
City construction tax教育费附加
Educational surcharge企业所得税
Corporate income tax代扣缴个人所得税
Withholding Individual 
Income tax2019年4月1日之前应税收入按16%或6%的税率计算销项税，2019年4月1日起应税收入按13%或6%的税率计算销项
税，并按扣除当期允许抵扣的进项税额后的差额计缴增值税。
The Bank is subjected to a Value-added output tax levied on 16 per cent or six per cent of taxable income deduct the input 
tax before 1 April 2019, and levied on 13 per cent or six per cent of taxable income deduct the input tax after 1 April 2019.按实际缴纳的流转税的7%计缴。
The Bank is subjected to a city construction tax rate of seven per cent on turnover tax.按实际缴纳的流转税的3%计缴。
The Bank is subjected to an educational surcharge rate of three per cent on turnover tax.按应纳税所得额的25%计缴。
The Bank is subjected to a corporate tax rate of 25 per cent.本公司支付给雇员的薪金，由本公司按税法代扣缴个人所得税。
In accordance with the relevant tax laws in the PRC, the Bank is required to withhold individual income tax on 
salaries paid to its employees.六、财务报表主要项目附注1. 现金及存放中央银行款项6. Notes to financial statements(1) Cash and deposit with the Central Bank库存现金Cash on hand31-12-20196,161,29831-12-20189,105,977存放中央银行法定准备金-人民币 Statutory deposit reserve with the Central Bank - RMB3,639,084,6553,837,964,425存放中央银行法定准备金-外币Statutory deposit reserve with the Central Bank - foreign currency存放中央银行外汇风险准备金Foreign exchange risk reserve with the Central Bank存放中央银行的其他款项Other deposits with the Central Bank应收利息Interest receivable减：存放中央银行款项减值准备Less: allowance for impairment losses合计Total286,104,723975,437,764294,752,887610,118,8721,570,033,4891,552,048,0871,391,298(669,977)2,053,235(1,806,085)6,477,543,2506,304,237,398根据中国人民银行的有关规定，本公司必须按一定比率缴付存款准备金于中
国人民银行。于 2019 年 12 月 31 日，本公司人民币及外币存款准备金缴存比
例分别为 11%(2018 年 12 月 31 日：12.5%) 及 5%(2018 年 12 月 31 日：5%)。从 2015 年 10 月至 2017 年 9 月，根据中国人民银行的有关规定，本公司按月
缴纳外汇风险准备金，每月按上月远期售汇签约额的 20% 缴存外汇风险准备
金，并存放于中国人民银行一年。2017 年 9 月，根据央行《中国人民银行关
于调整外汇风险准备金政策的通知》（银发 [2017]207 号），境内金融机构代
客远期售汇业务所需提取的外汇风险准备金率调整为 0%。2018 年 8 月 3 日，
根据央行《关于调整外汇风险准备金政策的通知》（银发 [2018]190 号），境
内金融机构代客远期售汇业务所需提取的外汇风险准备金率调整为 20%。于 2019 年 12 月 31 日及 2018 年 12 月 31 日，本公司将存放中央银行款项纳入
阶段一，按其未来 12 个月内预期信用损失计量减值准备。The Bank places statutory deposit reserves with the People’s Bank of China (PBOC) 
in accordance with relevant regulations issued by it. As at 31 December 2019, 
statutory deposit reserves placed with the PBOC were calculated at 11 per cent 
(31 December 2018: 12.5 per cent ) and five per cent (31 December 2018: five per 
cent) of qualified RMB deposits and foreign currency deposits from customers 
respectively.The  Bank  places  foreign  exchange  risk  reserve  with  the  PBOC  monthly  in 
accordance with relevant regulations from October 2015 to September 2017. 
The foreign exchange risk reserve is calculated at 20 per cent of the contractual 
amount  of  forward  sales  of  exchanges  in  the  preceding  month  and  will  be 
reserved in the Central Bank for one year. Since September 2017, the foreign 
exchange risk reserve is calculated at 0 per cent of the contractual amount of 
forward sales of exchanges in accordance with Yin Fa [2017] No.207 “the Notice of 
the People's Bank of China on adjustment of foreign exchange risk reserve policy” issued 
by PBOC. Since 3 August 2018, the foreign exchange risk reserve is calculated at 20 
per cent of the contractual amount of forward sales of exchanges in accordance 
with Yin Fa [2018] No.190 “the Notice of the People's Bank of China on adjustment of 
foreign exchange risk reserve policy” issued by PBOC.As at 31 December 2019 and 31 December 2018, the Bank included all deposit 
with the Central Bank in Stage I, and measured the impairment losses based on 
expected credit losses in the next 12 months (12-month ECL).116117拆放及借出境内银行同业及
其他金融机构拆放及借出境外银行同业应收利息小计Placements with overseas banksInterest receivableSub-total1,367,659,0001,014,613,60020,860,893104,824,3907,510,856,79813,984,353,417(11,010,576)(13,697,042)2. 存放同业款项(2) Due from banks and other financial institutions存放境内银行同业及其他金融机构Due from domestic banks and other financial institutions存放境外银行同业Due from overseas banks应收利息小计Interest receivableSub-total减：存放同业减值准备Less: allowance for impairment losses31-12-2019937,724,434920,510,122459,57031-12-20181,086,698,658753,066,1311,327,3811,858,694,1261,841,092,170(6,255,224)(6,309,371)存放同业净额Net amount of due from banks and other financial institutions1,852,438,9021,834,782,799注 1：存放同业减值准备为本公司根据银监发 [2010]45 号《中国银监会关于
印发 < 银行业金融机构国别风险管理指引 > 的通知》的规定而计提的国别风
险减值准备以及按照 12 个月预期信用损失计提的减值准备。于 2019 年 12 月 31 日及 2018 年 12 月 31 日，本公司将全部存放同业款项纳入
阶段一，按其未来 12 个月内预期信用损失计量减值准备。Note 1: Impairment provisions for due from banks and other financial institutions 
represented the country risk reserve provided according to Yin Jian Fa [2010] No. 
45 Circular of the China Banking Regulatory Commission on Printing and Distributing the 
Guidelines for Country Risk Management of the Banking Financial Institutions issued 
by CBIRC, and the provision for impairment measured according to 12-month 
expected credit loss.As at 31 December 2019 and 31 December 2018, the Bank included all due from 
banks and other financial institutions in Stage I, and measured the impairment 
losses based on expected credit losses in the next 12 months (12-month ECL).3. 拆出资金(3) Placements with banks and other financial institutionsPlacements with domestic banks and other financial institutions6,122,336,90512,864,915,42731-12-201931-12-2018减：拆放同业减值准备Less: allowance for impairment losses拆出资金净额Net amount of placements with banks and other financial institutions7,499,846,22213,970,656,375注 1：拆放同业减值准备为本公司根据银监发 [2010]45 号《中国银监会关于
印发〈银行业金融机构国别风险管理指引〉的通知》的规定而计提的国别风
险减值准备以及按照 12 个月预期信用损失计提的减值准备。于 2019 年 12 月 31 日及 2018 年 12 月 31 日，本公司将全部拆出资金纳入阶段一，
按其未来 12 个月内预期信用损失计量减值准备。Note  1:  Impairment  provisions  for  placements  represented  the  country  risk 
reserve provided according to Yin Jian Fa [2010] No. 45 Circular of the China 
Banking Regulatory Commission on Printing and Distributing the Guidelines for 
Country Risk Management of the Banking Financial Institutions issued by CBIRC, 
and the provision for impairment measured according to 12-month expected 
credit loss.As at 31 December 2019 and 31 December 2018, the Bank included all placements 
with  banks  and  other  financial  institutions  in  Stage  I,  and  measured  the 
impairment  losses  based  on  expected  credit  losses  in  the  next  12  months 
(12-month ECL).4. 交易性金融资产(4) Financial assets held-for-trading以公允价值计量且其变动
计入当期损益的金融资产：Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:政策性银行债券Bonds issued by policy banksPlacement with banks and other financial institutionsNegotiable certificates of depositInterest receivableTotal拆放同业同业存单应收利息合计11831-12-201931-12-2018-684,165,157740,087,7001,405,520409,350,760151,475,699894,193,80016,989,1431,425,658,3771,472,009,4025. 衍生金融工具
衍生金融工具指一种金融产品，其价值取决于其所依附的另一种“基
础性”金融产品指数或其他变量的价值。通常这些“基础性”产品
包括股票、大宗商品、债券市价、指数市价或汇率及利率等。本公
司运用的衍生金融工具包括远期合约、掉期、期权和期货。衍生金融工具的名义金额是指其所依附的“基础性”资产的合同价值，
体现资产负债表日未结清的部分。该合同价值反映了会计核算期末
本公司的衍生金融工具的风险敞口而非公允价值。本公司无为套期保值目的而被指定为套期工具的衍生金融工具。本公司于资产负债表日所持有的衍生金融工具如下：(5) Derivative financial instruments
A derivative is a financial instrument, the value of which 
is derived from the value of another “underlying” financial 
instrument, an index or some other variables. Typically, an 
“underlying” financial instrument is a share, commodity or 
bond price, an index value or an exchange or interest rate. 
The  Bank  uses  derivative  instruments  such  as  forwards, 
futures, swaps, options and futures.The notional amount of a derivative represents the amount 
of underlying asset upon which the value of the derivative 
is  based.  It  indicates  the  unsettled  volume  of  business 
transaction  at  the  balance  sheet  date.  The  amount  of 
underlying asset reflects the risk exposure of derivative at 
the end of accounting period other than fair value.The Bank has no derivative designated as hedging instruments.The notional amount and fair value of the Bank’s derivative 
instruments are as follows:外汇衍生工具：Foreign exchange 
contracts:远期合约掉期合约期权合约小计ForwardsSwapsOptionsSub-total31-12-201931-12-2018名义金额
Notional Amount公允价值 Fair Value
资产
Assets负债
Liabilities名义金额
Notional Amount公允价值 Fair Value
资产
Assets负债
Liabilities8,960,089,203276,786,396,74446,643,484,190160,513,88074,027,56811,046,554,96265,513,596119,074,4992,512,196,2872,659,081,330415,864,449,7244,874,531,221 4,610,794,899196,570,680240,972,34325,370,373,062545,806,880520,277,847332,389,970,1372,869,280,8472,974,081,241452,281,377,7485,485,851,6975,250,147,245利率衍生工具：Interest rate contracts:掉期合约Swaps小计Sub-total254,744,182,319254,744,182,319商品价格挂钩工具：Commodity contracts:掉期合约Swaps小计Sub-total股票价格挂钩工具：Equity contracts:期权合约小计OptionsSub-total贵金属衍生工具：Precious metal 
derivatives:远期合约掉期合约
    期权合约
    期货合约
小计合计ForwardsSwaps
Options
Futures
Sub-totalTotal3,464,077,9413,464,077,9411,698,436,0131,698,436,01318,735,007,2983,029,411,240
17,140,767
485,371,120
22,266,930,425614,563,596,835715,988,782743,648,913183,481,657,925732,417,067789,222,305715,988,782743,648,913183,481,657,925732,417,067789,222,305131,712,810131,226,2301,937,686,67330,071,88129,485,841131,712,810131,226,2301,937,686,67330,071,88129,485,8414,099,7334,126,3462,361,008,9471,705,6331,930,7964,099,7334,126,3462,361,008,9471,705,6331,930,796325,787,753226,100,6125,953,179,82243,712,65840,108,09371,990,336
234,681
14,682,947
412,695,71757,797,623
234,625
-
284,132,8602,735,599,206
-
-
8,688,779,02838,897,939
-
-
82,610,59761,022,749
-
-
101,130,8424,133,777,8894,137,215,590648,750,510,321 6,332,656,8756,171,917,0291196. 买入返售金融资产(6) Reverse repurchase financial assets7.2 按行业分布(7.2) Distribution of loans and advances to customers by industry按交易对手分类：Classified by counter-party:银行同业应收利息减：减值准备合计BanksInterest receivableLess: allowance for impairment lossesTotal按质押品分类：Classified by type of pledged assets债券应收利息减：减值准备合计BondsInterest recevableLess: allowance for impairment lossesTotal31-12-201931-12-20183,246,540,0007,561,612(353,251)3,253,748,3613,246,540,0007,561,612(353,251)3,253,748,3613,283,790,0007,850,111(2,383,587)3,289,256,5243,283,790,0007,850,111(2,383,587)3,289,256,524于 2019 年 12 月 31 日及 2018 年 12 月 31 日，本公司将全部买入返售金融资产
纳入阶段一，按其未来 12 个月内预期信用损失计量减值准备。As at 31 December 2019 and 31 December 2018, the Bank included all reverse 
repurchase financial assets in Stage I, and measured the impairment losses based 
on expected credit losses in the next 12 months (12-month ECL).7. 发放贷款和垫款7.1 按个人和企业分布(7) Loans and advances to customers(7.1) Distribution of loans and advances by individual and corporate31-12-201931-12-2018以摊余成本法计量的
发放贷款和垫款Loans and advances to customers at amortised 
cost个人贷款和垫款：Retail loans and advances:住房按揭其他小计MortgagesOthersSub-total企业贷款和垫款：Corporate loans and advances:贷款贴现贸易融资小计LoansDiscounted billsTrade financeSub-total以公允价值计量且其变动
计入当期损益的发放贷款
和垫款Loans and advances to customers at fair value 
through profit and loss合计Total贷款应收利息Interest receivable发放贷款和垫款总额Total amount of loans and advances减：贷款减值准备Less: allowance for impairment losses发放贷款和垫款账面价值 Net value of loans and advances to customers1206,829,629,5591,842,1906,831,471,74918,931,983,972258,427,1758,745,626,92427,936,038,071981,432,22835,748,942,048176,211,39635,925,153,444(780,738,832)35,144,414,6126,871,291,7882,783,6376,874,075,42517,842,022,147436,083,5367,439,886,50325,717,992,186885,500,93133,477,568,542158,960,37833,636,528,920(714,438,660)32,922,090,26031-12-2019账面余额比例AmountPercentage房地产业制造业批发和零售业金融业住宿和餐饮业信息传输、软件和信息技术服务业Real estatesManufacturingWholesale and retailFinanceAccommodation and cateringTelecommunication, software and information 
management service交通运输、仓储和邮政业Transportation, storage and post建筑业Construction卫生、社会保障和社会福利业Health, social security and social welfare电力、热力、燃气及水生产和供应业Electricity, heat, gas and water supply农林牧渔业租赁和商务服务业Agriculture, forestry, farming and fishingLeasing and commercial services科学研究和技术服务业Scientific research and technical services教育业Education居民服务、修理和其他服务业Residents services, repair and other services个人贷款合计贷款应收利息发放贷款和垫款总额减：贷款减值准备Retail loanTotalInterest receivableTotal amount of loans and advancesLess: allowance for impairment losses发放贷款和垫款账面价值Net value of loans and advances to customers9,571,546,4387,602,150,1856,252,272,9021,538,642,4731,206,711,997887,562,530384,427,303363,348,566361,613,033303,478,969200,000,000119,722,94993,299,68926,693,2656,000,0006,831,471,74935,748,942,048176,211,39635,925,153,444(780,738,832)35,144,414,61227%21%18%5%3%2%1%1%1%1%1%0%0%0%0%19%100%121制造业房地产业批发和零售业金融业住宿和餐饮业信息传输、软件和信息技术服务业ManufacturingReal estatesWholesale and retailFinanceAccommodation and cateringTelecommunication, software and information 
management service租赁和商务服务业Leasing and commercial services交通运输、仓储和邮政业Transportation, storage and post建筑业Construction电力、热力、燃气及水生产和供应业Electricity, heat, gas and water supply卫生，社会保障和社会福利业Health, social security and social welfare农林牧渔业科学研究和技术服务业Agriculture, forestry, farming and fishingScientific research and technical services居民服务、修理和其他服务业Residents services, repair and other servicesRetail loanTotalInterest receivableTotal amount of loans and advancesLess: allowance for impairment losses
Net value of loans and advances to customers个人贷款合计贷款应收利息发放贷款和垫款总额减：贷款减值准备发放贷款和垫款账面价值7.3 按地区分布东北华东华北华中华南西南西北境外地区合计贷款应收利息North-eastEastNorthCentralSouthSouth-westNorth-west
OverseasTotalInterest receivable发放贷款和垫款总额Total amount of loans and advances减：贷款减值准备Less: allowance for impairment losses发放贷款和垫款账面价值Net value of loans and advances to customers12231-12-2018比例 (%)
Percentage( %)24%22%16%5%3%3%1%1%1%1%1%1%0%0%21%100%账面余额
Amount8,080,908,6187,536,484,1475,210,735,5661,533,914,7961,117,397,918947,067,291495,242,110452,006,742374,525,024283,320,924220,567,591201,000,000142,322,3908,000,0006,874,075,42533,477,568,542158,960,37833,636,528,920(714,438,660)
32,922,090,26031-12-2019904,599,52618,625,920,7036,689,249,129965,661,5464,436,905,1842,722,592,826312,000,000
1,092,013,13435,748,942,048176,211,39635,925,153,444(780,738,832)35,144,414,61231-12-20181,030,567,89918,244,357,3815,945,112,567703,838,7873,929,572,6302,329,286,53877,000,000
1,217,832,74033,477,568,542158,960,37833,636,528,920(714,438,660)32,922,090,260(7.3) Distribution of loans and advances to customers bygeographical region7.4 按担保方式分布(7.4) Loans and advances to customers by type of collateral or guarantee信用贷款保证贷款Unsecured loansGuaranteed loans附担保物贷款Loans with collaterals其中：抵押贷款质押贷款Of which:Secured by mortgagesSecured by pledges发放贷款和垫款总额Total amount of loans and  advances减：贷款损失准备Less: allowance for impairment losses贷款和垫款账面价值Net value of loans and advances to customers7.5 逾期贷款(7.5) Overdue Loan31-12-20194,911,545,8346,601,416,89924,412,190,71119,886,982,2504,525,208,46135,925,153,444(780,738,832)35,144,414,61231-12-20186,412,734,7206,234,081,65020,989,712,55016,212,600,3474,777,112,20333,636,528,920(714,438,660)32,922,090,260逾期1天至90天Overdue 1 day to 
90 days逾期91天至1年
（含1年）
Overdue 91 days to 
1 year (inclusive)逾期1年至3年 
（含3年）
Overdue 1 year to 
3 years (inclusive)逾期3年以上Overdue 3 years  
above31-12-2019合计Total保证贷款Guaranteed loans附担保物贷款Loans with collaterals其中：Of which:抵押贷款Secured by mortgages合计Total31,615,001474,932474,93232,089,933---31,615,00168,490,080100,453,2887,800,808177,219,10868,490,08068,490,080100,453,2887,800,808177,219,108100,453,2887,800,808 208,834,109逾期1天至90天Overdue 1 day to 
90 days逾期91天至1年
（含1年）
Overdue 91 days to 
1 year (inclusive)逾期1年至3年 
（含3年）
Overdue 1 year to 
3 years (inclusive)逾期3年以上Overdue 3 years  
above31-12-2018合计Total7,699,98698,374,378---7,699,9862,629,45030,800,80866,201,717198,006,353保证贷款Guaranteed loans附担保物贷款Loans with collaterals其中：Of which:抵押贷款Secured by mortgages98,374,3782,629,45030,800,80866,201,717198,006,353合计Total106,074,3642,629,45030,800,80866,201,717 205,706,339逾期贷款是指本金或利息逾期 1 天或以上的贷款。
Overdue loans are loans of which the principals or related interests are overdue for one day or above.1237.6 贷款损失准备（附注六、14）(7.6) Loan impairment provision Note 6.148. 其他债权投资(8) Other debt instrument at fair value through other 
      comprehensive income以摊余成本法计量的发放贷款和垫款减值准备按照本公司 12 个月预
期信用损失及整个存续期预期信用损失分别计提，减值准备的变动
如下：The  allowances  for  loans  and  advances  measured  at 
amortized  cost  are  measured  according  to  the  12-month 
expected  credit  loss  and  lifetime  expected  credit  loss 
respectively. The movement of impairment provisions is as 
follows:第一阶段
Stage I第二阶段
Stage II第三阶段
Stage III未来12个月预期
信用损失整个存续期
预期信用损失12-month expected 
credit lossLifetime expected 
credit loss整个存续期已发生信
用减值金融资产
Credit-impaired 
financial assets 
(Lifetime expected 
credit loss)2019合计Total2019 年 1 月 1 日余额At 1 January 2019605,230,79328,985,39280,222,475714,438,6602019 年 1 月 1 日
余额在本年Opening balance on 1 January 
2019-- 转入第二阶段Transfer to Stage II(12,549,336)12,549,336-- 转入第三阶段Transfer to Stage III-- 转回第一阶段Transfer to Stage I(359,616)880,951-(880,951)-359,616----本年计提与转回Charge/(reverse) during the year54,070,33728,042,98551,536,626133,649,948本年核销Writing off during the year收回以前年度核销Recovery of loans and advances 
previously written off折现回拨汇率变动年末余额Unwinding of discountExchange rate difference--------(61,580,962)(61,580,962)--(5,849,180)(5,849,180)80,36680,366Closing balance647,273,12968,696,76264,768,941780,738,832应计利息Interest
 payable本年公允
价值变动Gains from change 
in fair value during 
the year年末余额成本累计公允价值变动Closing 
balanceCostAccumulated gains 
from changes 
in fair value2019累计在其他
综合收益中
确认的损失准备
Accumulated ECL 
recognised in other 
comprehensive 
income中央银行票据及国债
Central Bank bills and 
government bonds政策性银行债券
Bonds issued by policy 
banks同业存单
Negotiable certificate 
of deposits98,746,55120,470,7085,405,545,9715,314,361,33936,261,054542,91351,781,47511,070,3382,517,083,8252,478,239,41518,148,881449,536-837,8012,223,258,1402,207,317,0491,178,525604,224合计150,528,02632,378,84710,145,887,9369,999,917,80355,588,4601,596,673应计利息Interest
 payable本年公允
价值变动Gains form change 
in fair value during 
the year年末余额成本累计公允价值变动Closing 
balanceCostAccumulated gains 
from changes 
in fair value66,900,27036,113,4045,157,951,7115,125,060,65018,426,95710,699,5027,063,757598,773,911588,890,2707,078,5432018累计在其他
综合收益中
确认的损失准备
Accumulated ECL 
recognised in other 
comprehensive 
income521,936109,154-2,001,7501,213,859,3101,210,529,522395,902509,800中央银行票据及国债
Central Bank bills and 
government bonds政策性银行债券
Bonds issued by policy 
banks同业存单
Negotiable certificate 
of deposits2018 年 1 月 1 日余额At 1 January 2018514,224,03888,060,66376,633,455678,918,1562018 年 1 月 1 日
余额在本期Opening balance 
on 1 January 2018-- 转入第二阶段Transfer to Stage II(4,896,334)4,896,334--- 转入第三阶段Transfer to Stage III(25,160,945)-25,160,945-- 转回第一阶段Transfer to Stage I2,249,949(2,249,949)----本期计提与转回Charge/(reverse) during the year118,814,085(61,721,656)1,681,48158,773,910于 2019 年 12 月 31 日及 2018 年 12 月 31 日，本公司将全部其他债权投资纳入
阶段一，按其未来 12 个月内预期信用损失计量减值准备。本年在其他综合收益中确认的金额为人民币 32,834,631 元（2018 年：人民币
45,698,204 元），本年终止确认时从其他综合收益转入当期损益的利得和损失
金额为人民币 2,691,789 元（2018 年：人民币 9,308,162 元）。As at 31 December 2019 and 31 December 2018, the Bank included all other debt 
instrument at fair value through other comprehensive income in Stage I, and 
measured the impairment losses based on expected credit losses in the next 12 
months (12-month ECL).The  amount  recognized  in  other  comprehensive  income  in  2019  was  RMB 
32,834,631  (2018:  RMB45,698,204),  and  the  amount  transferred  from  other 
comprehensive income to the current profit and loss was RMB2,691,789 (2018: 
RMB9,308,162).2018合计77,599,77245,178,9116,970,584,9326,924,480,44225,901,4021,140,890本期核销Writing off during the year收回以前年度核销Recovery of loans and advances 
previously written offUnwinding of discountExchange rate difference--------(22,074,873)(22,074,873)28,020(1,164,272)(42,281)28,020(1,164,272)(42,281)折现回拨汇率变动年末余额124Closing balance605,230,79328,985,39280,222,475714,438,6601259. 固定资产2019原价：Cost:(9) Fixed assets房屋及建筑物
Properties and 
buildings运输设备Motor vehicles办公及电脑设备
Office  equipment and  
computers合计Total2018 年 12 月 31 日At 31 December 20185,793,6902,538,181119,061,110127,392,981本年会计政策变更Changes in accounting policies(5,793,690)2019 年 1 月 1 日At 1 January 2019本年增加Additions本年在建工程转入 
（附注六、13.2）Transfer from construction  in progress 
(Note 6. 13.2)本年处置Disposals2019 年 12 月 31 日At 31 December 2019累计折旧：Accumulated  depreciation:-----2,538,181----(5,793,690)119,061,110121,599,29111,669,04311,669,043618,251618,251(28,546,114)(28,546,114)2,538,181102,802,290105,340,4712018 年 12 月 31 日At 31 December 20182,027,7952,093,92086,787,31690,909,031本年会计政策变更Changes in accounting policies(2,027,795)--(2,027,795)2019 年 1 月 1 日At 1 January 2019本年计提本年处置AdditionsDisposals2019 年 12 月 31 日At 31 December 2019固定资产净值及净额Net book value and net  carrying amount2019 年 12 月 31 日At 31 December 2019-----2,093,920226,37486,787,31688,881,23611,976,19812,202,572-(28,409,219)(28,409,219)2,320,29470,354,29572,674,589217,88732,447,99532,665,8822018原价：Cost:房屋及建筑物
Properties and 
buildings运输设备Motor vehicles办公及电脑设备
Office  equipment and  
computers合计Total2018 年 1 月 1 日At 1 January 20185,793,6902,538,181115,320,396123,652,267本年增加
本年在建工程转入 
（附注六、13.2）
本年处置Additions
Transfer from construction  in progress 
(Note 6. 13.2)
Disposals2018 年 12 月 31 日At 31 December 2018累计折旧：Accumulated  depreciation:2018 年 1 月 1 日At 1 January 2018本年计提本年处置AdditionsDisposals------5,793,6902,538,1811,911,921115,874-1,722,465371,455-12,122,87112,122,87135,37135,371(8,417,528)(8,417,528)119,061,110127,392,98180,966,89784,601,28313,766,02914,253,358(7,945,610)(7,945,610)2018 年 12 月 31 日
固定资产净值及净额
2018 年 12 月 31 日At 31 December 2018
Net book value and net  carrying amount
At 31 December 20182,027,7952,093,92086,787,31690,909,0313,765,895444,26132,273,79436,483,950于 2018 年 12 月 31 日，房屋及建筑物为本公司融资租入的办公用房。
As at 31 December 2018 , the properties and buildings represent the office capitalised under finance lease.12610. 使用权资产2019成本：2019 年 1 月 1 日本年增加
2019 年 12 月 31 日累计折旧：Cost:At 1 January 2019Additions
At 31 December 2019Accumulated depreciation:2019 年 1 月 1 日At 1 January 2019本年计提Additions2019 年 12 月 31 日At 31 December 2019账面价值2019 年 1 月 1 日
2019 年 12 月 31 日11. 无形资产软件设备原价：年初余额本年购置在建工程转入
（附注六、13.2）本年处置年末余额累计摊销：年初账面余额本年计提本年处置年末余额Net book value and net carrying amountAt 1 January 2019
At 31 December 2019SoftwareCost or valuation:Opening balanceAdditionsTransfer from  construction in 
progress (Note 6. 13.2)Closing balanceAccumulated  amortisation:Opening balanceAdditionsDisposalsClosing balance无形资产净值及净额Net carrying amount(10) Right-of-use asset房屋及建筑物
Properties and buildings运输设备
Motor vehicles57,611,45543,862,803
101,474,2582,027,79530,786,54332,814,33855,583,660
68,659,9205,106,6111,509,033
6,615,644-3,061,8093,061,8095,106,611
3,553,835合计
Total62,718,06645,371,836
108,089,9022,027,79533,848,35235,876,14760,690,271
72,213,755(11) Intangible assets20192018217,984,1992,157,35825,199,910(12,128,105)233,213,362114,661,91528,039,884(12,128,105)130,573,694102,639,668202,519,5887,254,8788,209,733-217,984,19983,970,90530,691,010-114,661,915103,322,28412712. 递延所得税资产2019(12) Deferred tax assets递延所得税资产Deferred tax assets年初余额本年计入损益Opening 
balanceCredited/(Charged) 
to profit or loss本年直接计入 
所有者权益
Credited/(Charged) 
to equity年末余额Closing 
balance贷款及拆放同业损失准备其他金融资产减值准备Allowance for impairment losses on 
loan and placement 
Allowance for impairment losses on 
other financial assets预计负债Provisions其他债权投资的未实现损益Unrealised gain/(loss) on other debt 
instrument at fair value through other 
comprehensive income95,743,19439,082,063-134,825,2573,749,6826,341,061(6,760,573)(1,138,534)2,946,505(399,169)2,211,979-9,287,566-(7,136,542)(13,897,115)衍生金融工具公允价值变动损益 Changes in fair value of derivatives10,501,776(36,142,980)其他以公允价值计量且其变动计
入当期损益的金融工具的公允价
值变动Changes in fair value of other financial 
instruments at fair value through 
profit or loss7,885,549(4,880,177)预提职工工资及奖金Payroll payables预提费用Accrued liabilities其他合计2018OthersTotal3,049,9248,591,374626,634129,728,621883,160(4,137,581)(4,558,955)(7,946,499)-----(25,641,204)3,005,3723,933,0844,453,793(3,932,321)(7,535,711)114,246,411递延所得税资产Deferred tax assets年初余额本年计入损益Opening 
balanceCredited/(Charged) 
to profit or loss本年直接计入 
所有者权益
Credited/(Charged) 
to equity贷款及拆放同业损失准备其他金融资产减值准备Allowance for impairment losses on 
loan and placement 
Allowance for impairment losses on 
other financial assets预计负债Provisions可供出售金融资产未实现损益其他债权投资的未实现损益Unrealised gain/(loss) on available-
for-sale financial assets
Unrealised gain/(loss) on other debt 
instrument at fair value through other 
comprehensive income107,400,5777,033,5654,155,9982,492,337-年末余额Closing 
balance95,743,1943,749,6826,341,061(11,657,383)(3,283,883)2,185,063-----(2,492,337)-(6,760,573)(6,760,573)衍生金融工具公允价值变动损益 Changes in fair value of derivatives(69,224,845)79,726,621其他以公允价值计量且其变动计
入当期损益的金融工具的公允价
值变动Changes in fair value of other financial 
instruments at fair value through 
profit or loss12,925,414(5,039,865)预提职工工资及奖金Payroll payables预提费用可抵扣亏损其他合计Accrued liabilitiesDeductible tax lossesOthersTotal2,701,78710,393,05119,219,453847,61897,944,955348,137(1,801,677)(19,219,453)(220,984)41,036,576------10,501,7767,885,5493,049,9248,591,374-626,634(9,252,910)129,728,621于 2017 年 12 月 31 日，本公司根据对未来的盈利预测，以很可能取得用来抵扣可抵扣亏损的未来应纳税所得额为限确认的与人民币 76,877,811128元可抵扣亏损相关的递延所得税资产为人民币 19,219,453 元，到期日
为 2021 年，该可抵扣亏损已全部于 2018 年度抵减应纳税所得额。
As at 31 December 2017, based on the profit forecast and 
to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit 
will be available against which the unused tax losses canbe utilised, the Bank recognised deferred tax asset of RMB 
19,219,453 arising from unused tax losses of RMB76,877,811, 
among which will expire in Year 2021. The unused tax losses 
has been fully utilised in 2018.13. 其他资产(13) Other assets长期待摊费用Long-term deferred expenses在建工程其他应收款Construction in processOther receivables待认证进项税额及
增值税留抵税额Input VAT to be verified and 
VAT retained合计Total附注 
Notes13.113.213.331-12-201984,592,8134,590,472327,810,96521,504,558438,498,80813.1 长期待摊费用(13.1) Long-term deferred expenses2019年初余额本年增加Opening balanceAdditions本年在建工程转入 
（附注六、13.2）Transfer from  construction in  
progress (Note 6. 13.2)本年摊销年末余额2018年初余额本年增加AmortisationClosing balanceOpening balanceAdditions本年在建工程转入 
（附注六、13.2）Transfer from  construction in  
progress (Note 6. 13.2)本年摊销年末余额AmortisationClosing balance租入固定资产改良支出Leasehold improvement79,743,5175,462,7685,855,101(14,081,390)76,979,996租入固定资产改良支出Leasehold improvement88,169,5452,114,8586,286,530(16,827,416)79,743,517其他Others10,828,7361,366,071-(4,581,990)7,612,817其他Others1,530,19410,712,726-(1,414,184)10,828,73631-12-201890,572,25317,651,040256,785,7075,392,834370,401,834合计Total90,572,2536,828,8395,855,101(18,663,380)84,592,813合计Total89,699,73912,827,5846,286,530(18,241,600)90,572,25312913.2 在建工程年初余额本年增加Opening balanceAdditions(13.2) Construction in progress转入固定资产 （附注六、9）Transfer to fixed assets (Note 6. 9)转入无形资产 （附注六、11）Transfer to intangible assets (Note 6. 11)转入长期待摊费用 （附注六、13.1） Transfer to long-term deferred expenses (Note 6. 13.1)年末净值Net closing balance13.3 其他应收款(13.3) Other receivables应收及暂付款项Other receivable and prepayments减值准备年末净值Allowance for impairment lossesNet value201917,651,04018,612,694(618,251)(25,199,910)(5,855,101)4,590,4722019329,380,814(1,569,849)327,810,96520189,414,11622,768,558(35,371)(8,209,733)(6,286,530)17,651,0402018259,174,381(2,388,674)256,785,707应收及暂付款项主要包括应收待结算及清算款项。应收及暂付款项
的账龄分析列示如下：Other receivable and prepayments mainly include items in 
the process of clearing and settlement. The aging analysis is 
as follows:账龄1 年以内1-2 年2-3 年3 年以上小计AgingWithin 1 year1-2 years2-3 yearsMore than 3 yearsSub-total减：减值准备Less: allowance for impairment losses合计Total31-12-2019303,563,3417,926,4002,646,75315,244,320329,380,814(1,569,849)327,810,96531-12-2018238,638,9452,736,14914,199,6373,599,650259,174,381(2,388,674)256,785,707130其他应收款按照 12 个月预期信用损失及整个存续期预期信用损失计
提减值准备，减值准备的变动如下：The impairment provisions are measured according to the 
12-month expected credit loss and lifetime expected credit 
loss. The movement of allowance for impairment losses is as 
follows:2019 年 1 月 1 日余额Balance as at 1 January 2019本年计提本年核销年末余额Accrual during the yearWriting off during the yearEnding Balance第一阶段
Stage I第二阶段
Stage II第三阶段
Stage III未来12个月预期
信用损失整个存续期
预期信用损失12-month expected 
credit lossLifetime expected 
credit loss整个存续期已发生
信用减值金融资产
Credit-impaired 
financial assets
(Lifetime expected 
credit loss)1,068,674501,175-1,569,849----1,320,000827,954(2,147,954)-第一阶段第二阶段Stage IStage II第三阶段Stage III未来12个月预期
信用损失整个存续期
预期信用损失12-month expected 
credit lossLifetime expected 
credit loss整个存续期已发生
信用减值金融资产
Credit-impaired 
financial assets
(Lifetime expected 
credit loss)2018 年 1 月 1 日
余额Balance as at 1 January 20184,194,849678,000-本期计提 / 转回Accrual/(reverse) during the year(2,156,052)(678,000)1,320,000本期核销年末余额Writing off during the yearEnding Balance(970,123)1,068,674---1,320,0002019合计Total2,388,6741,329,129(2,147,954)1,569,8492018合计Total4,872,849(1,514,052)(970,123)2,388,67413114. 资产减值准备(14) Allowance for impairment losses15. 同业及其他金融机构存放款项(15) Due to banks and other financial institutions2019存放中央银行款项
减值准备
（附注六、1）Allowance for impairment losses 
on deposit with the Central Bank
(Note 6.1)存放同业款项减值
准备（附注六、2）拆出资金减值准备
（附注六、3）Allowance for impairment losses 
on due from banks and other 
financial institutions
(Note 6.2)Allowance for impairment losses 
on placements with banks
(Note 6.3)买入返售资产减值
准备
（附注六、6）Allowance for impairment losses 
on reverse repurchase financial 
assets
(Note 6.6)贷款减值准备
（附注六、7.6）Allowance for impairment losses 
on loans
(Note 6. 7.6)其他资产减值准备
( 附注六、13.3)Allowance for impairment losses 
on other assets
(Note 6.13.3)年初余额计提 / 
（转回）额Opening 
balanceAccrual/
(Reversal)1,806,085(1,136,108)6,309,371(54,147)13,697,042(2,686,466)2,383,587(2,030,336)714,438,660133,649,9482,388,6741,329,129合计Total741,023,419129,072,020收回以前 
年度核销
Recovery of 
loans and 
advances 
previously 
written off-------本年核销 折现回拨外币折算
差额及其他年末余额Writing off 
during the 
yearUnwinding
of discountExchange rate 
difference and 
others------------Closing 
balance669,9776,255,22411,010,576353,251(61,580,962)(5,849,180)80,366780,738,832(2,147,954)--1,569,849(63,728,916)(5,849,180)80,366800,597,709年初余额计提 / 
（转回）额收回以前 
年度核销本年核销折现回拨外币折算
差额及其他年末余额Opening 
balanceAccrual/
(Reversal)1,709,93796,14820,929,875(14,620,504)14,899,172(1,167,198)-2,383,5872018存放中央银行款项
减值准备
（附注六、1）Allowance for impairment losses 
on deposit with the Central Bank
(Note 6.1)存放同业款项减值
准备（附注六、2）拆出资金减值准备
（附注六、3）Allowance for impairment losses 
on due from banks and other 
financial institutions
(Note 6.2)Allowance for impairment losses 
on placements with banks
(Note 6.3)买入返售资产减值
准备
（附注六、6）Allowance for impairment losses 
on reverse repurchase financial 
assets
(Note 6.6)贷款减值准备
（附注六、7.6）Allowance for impairment losses 
on loans
(Note 6. 7.6)其他资产减值准备
( 附注六、13.3)Allowance for impairment losses 
on other assets
(Note 6.13.3)Recovery of 
loans and 
advances 
previously 
written offWriting off 
during the 
yearUnwinding
of discountExchange rate 
difference 
and othersClosing 
balance1,806,0856,309,371--------------(34,932)13,697,042-2,383,587678,918,15658,773,91028,020 (22,074,873)(1,164,272)(42,281)714,438,6604,872,849(1,514,052)-(970,123)--2,388,674Total721,329,98943,951,89128,020 (23,044,996)(1,164,272)(77,213)741,023,419合计132境内银行同业及其他金融机构存放 Due to domestic banks and other financial institutions境外银行同业存放Due to overseas banks应付利息合计16. 拆入资金Interest payableTotal境内银行同业拆入及借入Placements from domestic banks境外银行同业拆入及借入Placements from overseas banks应付利息合计Interest payableTotal31-12-2019294,889,203193,982,2483,198,427492,069,87831-12-2018401,467,113168,967,0831,297,184571,731,380(16) Placements from banks and other financial institutions31-12-2019300,000,00013,035,326,974123,625,46113,458,952,43531-12-20181,436,320,00015,241,083,97786,890,29716,764,294,27417. 交易性金融负债(17) Financial liabilities held-for-trading以公允价值计量且其变动计入当期
损益的金融负债：Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss:同业拆入应付利息合计Placement from banks and other financial institutionsInterest payableTotal31-12-201931-12-20183,182,245,145931,4793,183,176,6242,712,232,5288,262,6872,720,495,21518. 卖出回购金融资产款(18) Repurchase agreements按担保物分类：Classified by collateral:金融债券应付利息合计19. 吸收存款活期存款：
    公司客户
    个人客户
小计
定期存款：
    公司客户
    个人客户
小计
应付利息
合计Financial bondInterest payableTotalCurrent deposits:
Corporate customers
Individual customers
Sub-total
Time deposits:
Corporate customers
Individual customers
Sub-total
Interest payable
Total31-12-201931-12-2018720,000,000292,241720,292,241270,000,000207,863270,207,863(19) Customer deposits31-12-201931-12-201811,288,182,352
902,535,028
12,190,717,38024,571,183,163
2,494,319,459
27,065,502,622
249,868,326
39,506,088,3289,291,172,885 
693,077,452 
9,984,250,33724,351,823,227
2,680,015,655
27,031,838,882
238,548,813
37,254,638,03213320. 应付职工薪酬(20) Payroll payables未付金额
工资、奖金、津贴和补贴
社会保险费
住房公积金
工会经费和职工教育经费
设定提存计划
其中：基本养老保险费
           企业年金缴费
合计应付金额
工资、奖金、津贴和补贴
社会保险费
住房公积金
工会经费和职工教育经费
设定提存计划
其中：基本养老保险费
           企业年金缴费
其他与员工相关的费用
合计Amount unpaid
Salary, bonus, subsidy and allowance
Social insurance
Housing fund
Labour union expenditure and staff education fee 
Defined contribution plan
Of which:  Pension fund
                  Annuity
TotalAmount payable
Salary, bonus, subsidy and allowance
Social insurance
Housing fund
Labour union expenditure and staff education fee
Defined contribution plan
Of which: Pension fund
                  Annuity
Other staff related expenses
Total21. 应交税费(21) Tax payables增值税附加税企业所得税代扣代缴税项其他合计Value added taxTax surchargesCorporate income taxWithholding taxOthersTotal31-12-2019
105,737,970
2,306,331
-
41,282
13,575,125
4,372,129
9,202,996
121,660,7082019
567,895,413
28,010,121
26,444,852
5,144,278
53,708,874
40,741,899
12,966,975
19,654,508
700,858,04631-12-201925,259,9463,045,4773,404,46830,808,148334,04362,852,08222. 应付债券(22) Debt securities issued31-12-2018
110,629,010
3,465,737
112,258
42,597
11,398,370
3,998,347   
7,400,023
125,647,9722018
539,525,714
23,609,358
22,222,536
4,868,701
50,147,618
41,015,522
9,132,096
12,472,191
652,846,11831-12-201822,830,2992,592,94859,534,46731,715,526243,512116,916,752Financial bondTier-two capital bondNegotiable certificates of depositTotal31-12-20191,033,269,2631,002,668,373709,614,8712,745,552,50731-12-20181,032,306,313-1,620,334,0702,652,640,383金融债二级资本债同业存单合计134于 2019 年 12 月 31 日，应付债券余额列示如下：
As at 31 December 2019, the amount of debt securities issued listed below:债券期限发行金额本年发行本年计提利息 本年偿还 / 支付利息年末余额PeriodIssue amount Actual issue amountAccrued interestRepaymentclosing balance发行日期Issue date已发行的金融债券：
Issued financial bond:2018/4/133 年 (3 years)1,000,000,000-49,204,419(49,300,000)1,033,269,263已发行的二级资本债：
Issued Tier-two capital bond:2019/11/1510 年 (10 years)1,000,000,000997,076,3645,639,344-1,002,668,3732018 年 4 月 13 日发行的金融债券为三年期固定利率债券，面值为人
民币 100 元，票面利率为 4.93%，每年付息一次，兑付日为 2021 年 4
月 17 日。2019 年 11 月 15 日发行的第一期二级资本债属于 10 年期固定利率债
券，面值为人民币 100 元，票面利率为 4.8%，每年付息一次。本行
在满足相关条件下有权选择在第 5 年末按面值提前一次性部分或全
部赎回本期债券。本公司于 2019 年度在全国银行间市场发行 8 期人民币同业存单，面
值均为人民币 100 元，贴息发行。本公司应付债券没有出现拖欠本金、利息，或赎回款项的违约情况。The fixed rate financial bond issued on 13 April 2018 has a 
maturity of three years, with RMB100 par value and interest is 
paid annually at a fixed rate of 4.93 per cent per annum. The 
redemption date is 17 April 2021.The  tier-two  capital bond issued  on  15 November  2019 is 
a 10-year bond with RMB100 par value and interest is paid 
annually at a fixed rate of 4.8 per cent per annum. The bond 
is redeemable at par at the option of the Bank, in part or 
in whole, at the end of the 5  year subject to the relevant 
conditions.thEight negotiable certificates of deposit issued in 2019. The 
par value was RMB100, the interest rate was zero.During the year ended 31 December 2019, the Bank did not 
default on any principal, interest or redemption amounts with 
respect to its debt securities issued.23. 预计负债(23) Provisions信用承诺及财务担保
减值准备：Allowance for impairment losses on loan commitments 
and financial guarantee contracts:年初余额本年增加年末余额Opening balanceIncreaseClosing balance31-12-201931-12-201825,364,24311,786,02337,150,26616,623,9928,740,25125,364,243信用承诺及财务担保按照 12 个月预期信用损失及整个存续期预期信
用损失计提减值准备，减值准备的变动如下：The allowance for impairment losses on loan commitments and financial 
guarantee contracts are measured according to the 12-month expected 
credit loss and lifetime expected credit loss. The movement of allowance 
for impairment losses are as follows:1352019第一阶段
Stage I第二阶段
Stage II未来 12 个月预期
信用损失
12-month expected credit loss整个存续期
预期信用损失
Lifetime expected credit loss第三阶段
Stage III
整个存续期
已发生信用减值金融资产
Credit-impaired financial assets 
(Lifetime expected credit loss)合计
Total2019 年 1 月 1 日余额 Opening balance本期计提 / 转回Accrued/(Reversed)年末余额Closing balance201824,459,6498,747,58133,207,230第一阶段
Stage I904,594(441,729)462,865第二阶段
Stage II未来 12 个月预期
信用损失
12-month expected credit loss整个存续期
预期信用损失
Lifetime expected credit loss2018 年 1 月 1 日余额 Opening balance15,836,529本期计提 / 转回Accrued/(Reversed)年末余额Closing balance8,623,12024,459,649787,463117,131904,594第三阶段
Stage III
整个存续期
已发生信用减值金融资产
Credit-impaired financial assets 
(Lifetime expected credit loss)合计
Total24. 租赁负债房屋及建筑物运输工具合计25. 其他负债待结算及清算款项应付 IT 系统服务费预提费用装修尾款其他合计26. 实收资本Properties and buildingsMotor vehiclesTotalSettlement and clearingIT system service feeAccured expenseRenovation payableOthersTotal(24) Lease liabilities(25) Other liabilities31-12-2019238,609,61633,461,44616,819,1383,049,08143,536,969335,476,250注册及实收资本Paid-up capital(26) Paid-up capital31-12-2019等值人民币
RMB equivalent%31-12-2018等值人民币
RMB equivalent%大华银行有限公司United Overseas Bank Limited5,500,000,0001005,500,000,00010027. 资本公积
资本公积系本公司为换取员工服务，实施的股份支付计划下，以权益
结算的股份支付计入资本公积的余额。(27) Capital reserve
In  exchange  for  employee  service,  the Bank runs  a  share-
based compensation programme which is equity settled with a 
corresponding charge to the capital reserve.136---16,623,9928,740,25125,364,24331-12-201967,256,2973,681,40970,937,70631-12-2018590,281,59142,789,32320,424,4795,299,63839,510,769698,305,800-25,364,2433,480,17111,786,0233,480,17137,150,266其他债权投资信用减值损失其他债权投资公允价值变动Credit impairment losses of other debt investments at 
fair value through other comprehensive income
Fair value changes of other debt instrument at fair value 
through other comprehensive income合计Total28. 其他综合收益
资产负债表中其他综合收益累积余额：(28) Other comprehensive income
Accumulated balance of other comprehensive income in the 
balance sheet:1-1-20191,140,89019,140,82920,281,7191-1-2018621,597(7,477,010)316,140增减变动
Increase/(decrease)31-12-201956,6151,197,50522,550,51641,691,34522,607,13142,888,850增减变动
Increase/(decrease)31-12-2018519,2931,140,89026,617,83919,140,829(316,140)-(6,539,273)26,820,99220,281,719其他债权投资信用减值损失其他债权投资公允价值变动Credit impairment losses of other debt investments at 
fair value through other comprehensive income 
Fair value changes of other debt instrument at fair value 
through other comprehensive income其他合计OthersTotal利润表中其他综合收益当期发生额：Other comprehensive income in the income statement:2019其他债权投资
信用减值损失其他债权投资
公允价值变动合计2018其他债权投资
信用减值损失
其他债权投资
公允价值变动其他合计29. 盈余公积年初余额本年增加年末余额Credit impairment losses of other debt investments 
at fair value through other comprehensive income 
Fair value changes of other debt instrument at fair 
value through other comprehensive incomeTotalCredit impairment losses of other debt investments at 
fair value through other comprehensive income 
Fair value changes of other debt instrument at fair 
value through other comprehensive incomeOthersTotal税前金额Before tax455,78432,378,84732,834,631税前金额Before tax519,29345,178,911减：前期计入 
其他综合收益 
当期转入损益
Less: Transfer to the 
profit or loss减：所得税 税后金额Less: Income 
taxAfter tax-399,16956,6152,691,7897,136,54222,550,5162,691,7897,535,71122,607,131减：前期计入 
其他综合收益 
当期转入损益
Less: Transfer to the 
profit or loss减：所得税 税后金额Less: Income 
taxAfter tax--519,2939,308,1629,252,91026,617,839-316,140-(316,140)45,698,2049,624,3029,252,91026,820,992Opening balanceIncreaseClosing balance(29) Surplus reserves2019115,075,95812,436,395127,512,3532018100,026,50715,049,451115,075,958137根据公司法和本公司章程的规定，并经 2020 年 3 月 6 日董事会决议，
本公司按净利润的 10% 提取法定盈余公积金。法定盈余公积累计额为
本公司注册资本 50% 以上的，可不再提取。本公司在提取法定盈余公积金后，可提取任意盈余公积金。经批准，
任意盈余公积金可用于弥补以前年度亏损或增加股本。根据本公司董
事会会议的决议，本年度不提取任意盈余公积金。According to the Company Law of the PRC and the Bank’s Articles 
of Association, accompanied with resolution passed by the Board 
of Directors on 6 March 2020, the Bank has appropriated 10 per 
cent of its net profit to the statutory surplus reserves. The Bank 
should appropriate until the reserve balance reaches 50 per cent 
of its registered capital or above.After the statutory surplus reserves are appropriated, the Bank 
may appropriate discretionary surplus reserves. Discretionary 
surplus reserves can be used to compensate for the accumulated 
losses of previous years or convert to capital upon approval. It 
has been determined by the Board of Directors of the Bank that 
no discretionary surplus reserves are to be appropriated this year.30. 一般风险准备(30) General reserves年初余额本年增加 /（减少）年末余额Openning balanceIncrease/(decrease)Closing balance本公司依照财金 [2012]20 号文《金融企业准备金计提管理办法》的规
定，从税后利润中按原则上不低于风险资产期末余额 1.5% 的比例计提
一般风险准备，作为利润分配处理。本公司根据 2020 年 3 月 6 日的
董事会决议，转回一般风险准备人民币 9,723,448 元，一般风险准备余
额已达到风险资产期末余额 1.5%。2019826,398,940(9,723,448)816,675,4922018708,458,438117,940,502826,398,940According  to  the regulation  CaiJin [2012] No.  20 Financial 
institution provision measurement Guideline,  the  Bank  is 
required to set aside general reserves of at least 1.5 per cent 
of its total risk assets at year end from net profit. The Bank 
reversed general reserve amounting to RMB9,723,448 according 
to the resolution passed by the Board of Directors on 6 March 
2020 and the amount has been up to 1.5 per cent of its total 
risk assets.31. 未分配利润(31)  Retained earnings调整前上年年末未分配利润Retained earnings brought forward before 
adjustment调整Adjustment调整后年初未分配利润Retained earnings brought forward after 
adjustment净利润Net profit for the year减：提取法定盈余公积Less: Appropriation to statutory surplus reserves提取 /（转回）一般风险准备          Appropriation /(reverse) to general reserves年末未分配利润Closing balance of retained earnings2019361,573,277-361,573,277124,363,947(12,436,395)9,723,448483,224,2772018482,534,898(138,466,186)344,068,712150,494,518(15,049,451)(117,940,502)361,573,277根据《中华人民共和国公司法》及本公司的公司章程，本公司利润在（1）
满足所有税务责任；（2）弥补以前年度亏损；（3）提取法定盈余公积金；
（4）提取一般风险准备；（5）提取任意盈余公积金后，可以利润分
配形式分配给股东。一般风险准备及各项基金的提取比例在符合有关
法规的前提下，由本公司董事会决定。分配利润的决定由本公司董事
会决定，并参考营运结果、财务状况及其他有关的原因而厘定。138According to the Company Law of the PRC and the Articles 
of Association of the Bank, the profit of the Bank can only 
be  distributed  to  shareholders  after  (1)  fulfilling  all  tax 
responsibilities; (2) compensating any accumulated losses; (3) 
making appropriation to statutory surplus reserves; (4) making 
appropriation to the general reserves; (5) making appropriation 
to discretionary surplus reserves.  The appropriation ratios 
of the general reserves and surplus reserves are decided by 
the Bank's Board of Directors in compliance with relevant 
regulations. The profit appropriation is decided by the Board 
of Directors  of  the Bank,  with reference  to  the  operating 
performance, financial positions, and other relevant factors.32. 利息净收入(32) Net interest income利息收入：Interest income:存放及拆放同业Due from banks and placement with banks and other financial institutions384,352,555521,990,86620192018存放中央银行Deposit with the Central Bank发放贷款和垫款Loans and advances to customers买入返售债券Reverse repurchase financial assets-bonds债券及同业存单Bond and negotiable certificate of deposits小计利息支出：Sub-totalInterest expense:同业及其他金融机构存放     Due to banks and other financial institutions吸收存款Customer deposits60,959,26773,924,6421,584,624,8201,349,367,27086,581,58580,918,426255,487,627211,793,8952,372,005,8542,237,995,09923,411,2577,015,144942,691,931762,906,554拆入资金及其他Placement from banks and other financial institutions and others448,134,220443,666,176债券及同业存单Bond and negotiable certificate of deposits租赁负债小计利息净收入Lease liabilitiesSub-totalNet interest income120,774,24945,208,1102,925,162-1,537,936,8191,258,795,984834,069,035979,199,11533. 手续费及佣金净收入(33) Net fees and commission income手续费及佣金收入：Fees and commission income:结算与清算手续费Settlement and clearing fees代理业务手续费Agency brokerage fees信用承诺手续费Credit commitment fees与授信有关的收入Credit related income顾问和咨询费Consulting fees托管及其他受托业务佣金     Commissions of trusteeship and others其他小计OthersSub-total手续费及佣金支出：Fees and commission expense:手续费支出Fee expenses小计Sub-total手续费及佣金净收入Net fees and commission income2019201823,519,99424,384,26219,137,7969,630,44350,043,34238,726,86689,746,71257,923,97919,379,28722,135,88834,015,10423,927,3953,636,27311,972,779239,478,508188,701,61267,569,05758,388,02367,569,05758,388,023171,909,451130,313,58913934. 投资收益(34) Investment income39. 信用减值损失(39) Credit impairment losses衍生金融工具已实现净收益Net realised gain on derivatives2019201818,485,058101,724,294债券及同业存单投资净收益Net realised gain on bond and negotiable certificate of deposits35,390,59262,670,376其他合计OthersTotal(2,889,363)(26,819,631)50,986,287137,575,03935. 公允价值变动净收益(35) Gains/(loss) from changes in fair values存放中央银行减值损失Impairment losses for deposit with the Central Bank存放同业减值损失拆放同业减值损失贷款减值损失信用承诺减值损失Impairment losses for due from banks and other financial institutionsImpairment losses for placements with banksImpairment losses for loansImpairment losses for credit commitment其他债权投资减值损失Impairment losses for other debt instrument at fair value through other 
comprehensive income衍生产品业务收入 - 公允价值变动损益 Changes of fair value of derivatives148,957,308(295,312,733)其他资产减值损失Impairment losses for other assets20192018买入返售金融资产减值损失Impairment losses for reverse repurchase financial assets交易性金融负债 - 借入黄金Financial liabilities held-for-trading-gold borrowing60,897,160(50,970,922)2019(1,136,108)(54,147)(2,686,466)133,649,94811,786,023455,784(2,030,336)1,329,129141,313,82720194,418,2467,946,49912,364,745201896,148(14,620,504)(1,167,198)58,773,9108,740,251519,2932,383,587(1,514,052)53,211,435201859,534,465(41,036,576)18,497,889发放贷款及垫款 - 借出黄金Loans and advances to customers-gold lending交易性金融资产Financial assets held-for-trading其他合计36. 汇兑损益OthersTotal汇兑损益包括外币交易因汇率变动而产生的损益以及外汇衍生金融工
具产生的损益。(24,975,903)44,626,109(16,705,598)5,994,74953,6532,176,954168,226,620(293,485,843)(36) Foreign exchange gain/(loss)Foreign exchange gain/(loss) includes gain/(loss) of foreign 
business related to the changes of exchange rate and gain/
(loss) arising from derivative financial instruments.37. 其他收益(37) Other income与收益相关的政府补助Income-related on government subsidies201920181,961,4602,073,44938. 业务及管理费(38) General and administrative expenses员工费用折旧费Staff costsDepreciation无形资产摊销费Amortisation of intangible assets长期待摊费用摊销费Amortisation of long-term deferred expenses业务费用合计Other operating expensesTotal20192018700,858,046649,703,11846,050,92414,253,35828,039,88430,691,01018,663,38018,241,600275,349,554284,117,6401,068,961,788997,006,726140合计Total40. 所得税费用(40) Income tax expenses当期所得税递延所得税合计Current income taxDeferred income tax expensesTotal所得税费用与利润总额的关系列示如下：The reconciliation of income tax expenses to profit before tax 
is as follows:税前利润Profit before tax按法定税率 25％计算的税项Tax charge on a tax rate at 25 per cent对以前期间税项的调整Adjustment in respect of prior periods免税的国债利息收入Tax-free Interest income of government bonds不可抵扣的税项费用Non-deductible items所得税费用Income tax expenses2019136,728,69234,182,1736,351,106(34,422,270)6,253,73612,364,7452018168,992,40742,248,101(1,205,952)(26,647,629)4,103,36918,497,88914141. 现金流量表补充资料(41) Supplementary information for the statement of cash fows42. 现金及现金等价物(42) Cash and cash equivalents1、将净利润调节为经营活动的现金流量： 1. Reconciliation of net profit to cash flows from operating activities:净利润信用减值损失固定资产折旧使用权资产折旧无形资产摊销长期待摊费用摊销Net profitCredit impairment lossFixed assets depreciationRight-of-use assets depreciationAmortisation expenses for intangible assetsAmortisation for long-term deferred expenses20192018124,363,947150,494,518141,313,82753,211,43512,202,57214,253,35833,848,352-28,039,88430,691,01018,663,38018,241,600处置固定资产 / 其他长期资产
损失Losses on disposal of fixed assets and other long-term assets110,890460,909债券、同业存单及租赁负债利息支出Interest expenses of bond, negotiable certificates of deposit and 
   lease liabilities公允价值变动净损益Gain/(loss) from changes in fair value投资收益汇兑损益Investment incomeForeign exchange losses/(gain)123,699,41145,208,110(168,226,620)293,485,843(431,484,935)(411,955,319)235,031,807(687,078,808)递延所得税款减少 /（增加）Decrease/(increase) in deferred tax assets/liabilities7,946,499(41,036,576)经营性应收项目的减少 /( 增加 )Decrease/(increase) in operating receivables3,686,623,434 (10,721,593,519)经营性应付项目的 ( 减少 )/ 增加(Decrease)/ increase in operating payables经营活动产生的现金流量净额Net cash flows from operating activities(456,098,313)7,436,945,1443,356,034,135(3,818,672,295)2、现金及现金等价物净变动情况：2. Net change in cash and cash equivalents:现金的年末余额Cash on hand at end of year减：现金的年初余额Less: Cash on hand at the beginning of year6,161,2989,105,9779,105,97713,235,129加：现金等价物的年末余额Add: Cash equivalents at the end of year10,961,925,97410,543,710,893减：现金等价物的年初余额Less: Cash equivalents at the beginning of year10,543,710,89314,313,497,802现金及现金等价物净增加 /( 减少 ) 额Net increase /(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents415,270,402(3,773,916,061)现金现金等价物：CashCash equivalents:原期限在三个月以内的With original maturity less than three months31-12-201931-12-20186,161,2989,105,977- 存放同业款项- 拆出资金- Due from banks and other financial institutions1,609,585,6641,346,403,873- Placements with banks and other financial institutions3,787,085,3713,358,841,446- 买入返售金融资产- Reverse repurchase financial assets3,246,540,000 3,283,790,000- 拆出黄金- Gold lending债券及同业存单投资
（从购买日起三个月内到期）
存放中央银行其他款项Bond and negotiable certificate of deposit investments 
 (tenor within three months from purchase date)
 Other deposits with the Central Bank小计合计Sub-totalTotal-14,249,317748,681,450988,378,1701,570,033,4891,552,048,08710,961,925,97410,543,710,89310,968,087,272 10,552,816,87043. 股份支付                                                                             (43) Share-based compensation plans本公司的股份支付计划包括限制性股票激励计划和股票增值权激励
计划。相关计划涉及的股份均系大华银行的股份。于 2019 年 12 月 31
日发行在外的限制性股票激励计划的股份数为 217,565 份，剩余合同
期限范围为 1 至 2 年；于 2019 年 12 月 31 日可行权的股票增值权为 0 份。Share-based compensation plans of the Bank comprise the 
Restricted Share Plan and the Share Appreciation Rights Plan. 
All shares involved are the shares of UOB. As at 31 December 
2019, the number of outstanding grants of Restricted Shares 
was 217,565, the remaining contractual period of 1~2 years. As 
at 31 December 2019, the number of outstanding grants of 
Share Appreciation Rights was zero.142143七、分部报告7. Segment Information1. 分部业绩、资产及负债(1) Segment profit and loss, assets and liabilities本公司根据内部组织结构、管理要求及内部报告制度确定了批发银
行部、零售银行部、环球金融部及其他业务及未分配项目共 4 个报
告分部。每个报告分部为单独的业务分部，提供不同的产品和劳务。
本公司管理层将会定期审阅不同分部的财务信息以决定向其配置资
源、评价业绩。本公司报告分部的主要业务如下：批发银行部
向各类企业提供包括贷款、贸易融资、存款服务、资金管理、外汇
买卖服务等金融服务。零售银行部
向个人客户提供包括个人贷款、存款服务、银行卡服务、个人理财
服务和汇款等服务。环球金融部
包括于银行间市场进行与资金业务相关的同业拆借交易、回购交易、
债务工具投资，以及外汇及贵金属产品、利率衍生产品的交易。其他业务及未分配项目分部
指不能直接归属上述某个分部或未能合理分配的资产、负债、收入
及支出。为了评价各个分部的业绩及向其配置资源，本公司管理层会定期审
阅归属于各分部资产、负债、收入、费用及经营成果，这些信息的
编制基础如下： 
 
分部资产主要包括归属于各分部的各项金融资产、有形资产、无形
资产和其他长期资产。分部负债包括归属于各分部的各项金融负债，
包括各项存款、拆入资金、各项应付款等。
 
分部经营成果是指各个分部产生的收入 ( 包括对外交易收入及分部
间的交易收入 )，扣除各个分部发生的直接费用（包括归属于各分
部的资产发生的折旧和摊销）、根据受益原则被分摊到的间接费用
以及资产减值损失。分部之间收入的转移定价按照与其他对外交易
相似的条款计算。The Bank is organised into four different operating segments, 
namely Wholesale Banking, Retail Banking, Global Markets, 
and others and unallocated based on internal organisational 
structure, management requirement and internal reporting 
system.  Every  reporting  segment,  which  is  individual 
business segment, provides different products and services. 
Management periodically reviews the financial information 
of  the  segments  to  determine  resource  allocation  and 
performance assessment.The main businesses of the segments are as follows:Wholesale Banking
The  wholesale  banking  segment  provides  products  and 
services such as corporate loans, trade financing, deposit-
taking  activities,  fund  management,  foreign  exchange 
services, etc.Retail Banking
The retail banking segment provides products and services 
such  as retail  loans, deposit-taking activities, bank cards, 
wealth management and remittance services, etc.Global Markets (GM)
The GM segment is responsible for conducting inter-bank 
placements, repurchase and reverse repurchase transactions 
and bond investments in the inter-bank market and dealing 
foreign exchanges, precious metals and interest rate related 
derivatives, etc.Others and unallocated
This  segment  represents  the  assets,  liabilities,  income 
and expenses that are not directly attributable or cannot 
be  allocated  on  a  reasonable  basis  to  any  of  the  above 
segments.In  order  to  assess  the  performance  of  the  segments  and 
allocate resources, management will periodically review the 
assets, liabilities, income, expenses and financial performance 
of the segments, and such information is prepared on the 
following basis:Segment  assets  mainly  include  financial  assets,  tangible 
assets, intangible assets and other long-term assets which are 
attributable to the segments, while segment liabilities mainly 
include deposits, borrowings and other payables which are 
attributable to the segments.Segment financial performance refer to income generated 
by  each  segment  (including  external  and  inter-segment 
income),  deducted  by  direct  cost  (including  depreciation 
and amortisation pertaining to the assets allocated to the 
segments), indirect cost allocated based on occupation of 
resources and asset impairment losses. Transactions between 
segments are priced at similar terms as external transactions.一、营业收入1. Operating income168,451,843批发银行业务 零售银行业务 环球金融业务
GMWholesale 
Banking
917,514,497Retail  
Banking
144,724,904其他业务及
未分配项目
Others and 
unallocated
129,872,9832019合计
Total1,360,564,227利息净收入Net interest income650,439,29987,817,800(12,380,269)108,192,205834,069,035其中：对外利息净收入 Of which: External interest income660,956,301217,937,402382,203,449(427,028,117)834,069,035分部间利息净收入                 Internal interest income(10,517,002)(130,119,602)(394,583,718)535,220,322-手续费及佣金净收入 Net fee and commission income173,185,71645,477,227(59,462,084)12,708,592171,909,451其他净收入Other net income93,889,48211,429,877240,294,1968,972,186354,585,741二、营业支出2. Operating expenses(477,490,856)(266,346,668)(108,598,488)(371,913,969)(1,224,349,981)其中：信用减值准备Of which: Credit impairment losses(27,360,896)1,597,871(1,209,072)(114,341,730)(141,313,827)三、净营业外收支3. Net non-operating income/(expenses)(10,319)(4,877)320,033209,609514,446四、税前利润4. Profit before tax440,013,322(121,626,641)60,173,388(241,831,377)136,728,692五、折旧与摊销费用5. Depreciation and amortisation六、资本支出6. Capital expenditure14,996,6411,254,61229,167,2319,313,0521,720,6082,667,52746,869,70892,754,18826,032,74339,267,93431-12-2019七、资产总额八、负债总额7. Total assets8. Total liabilities31,562,710,2426,822,552,63033,189,731,010281,294,535 71,856,288,41736,322,324,0293,457,602,72613,791,163,02411,300,334,836 64,871,424,615批发银行业务 零售银行业务 环球金融业务Wholesale 
BankingRetail  
BankingGM其他业务及
未分配项目
Others and 
unallocated2018合计Total一、营业收入1. Operating income895,873,258112,725,778135,317,21185,553,8571,229,470,104利息净收入Net interest income677,092,12178,342,56098,328,205125,436,229979,199,115其中：对外利息净收入 Of which: External interest income666,202,178221,208,500422,163,098(330,374,661)979,199,115分部间利息净收入                 Internal interest income10,889,943(142,865,940)(323,834,893)455,810,890-手续费及佣金净收入 Net fee and commission income136,763,51627,046,367(43,197,071)9,700,777130,313,589其他净收入Other net income82,017,6217,336,85180,186,077(49,583,149)119,957,400二、营业支出2. Operating expenses(485,125,385)(249,997,873)(97,925,082)(229,638,126) (1,062,686,466)其中：信用减值准备Of which: Credit impairment losses(89,678,006)(4,529,202)(4,886,074)45,881,847(53,211,435)三、净营业外收支3. Net non-operating income/(expenses)(7,651)4,711369,9931,841,7162,208,769四、税前利润4. Profit before tax410,740,222(137,267,384)37,762,122(142,242,553)168,992,407五、折旧与摊销费用5. Depreciation and amortisation6,225,33012,482,9151,944,87042,532,85363,185,968六、资本支出6. Capital expenditure572,89617,206,328620,04536,574,62254,973,891七、资产总额八、负债总额7. Total assets8. Total liabilities36,787,526,3496,838,292,78330,223,576,493357,284,909 74,206,680,53434,183,871,5643,418,428,22314,252,923,05615,516,936,100 67,372,158,94331-12-20181441452. 其他信息(2) Other information(1) 地理信息
对外营业收入是按照客户所在地为基础分配至相应的国家或地区，
本公司按不同地区列示的有关取得的对外营业收入 /（支出）的信
息如下：(1) External operation income by geography
External  operation  income  is  distributed  to  respective 
countries  and  regions  by  their  geography  locations.  The 
external  operation  income/(expense)  which  divided  by 
different geography locations is shown as follows:对外营业收入 /（支出） External operation income/(expense)境内境外合计DomesticOverseasTotal20192,323,841,125(963,276,898)1,360,564,22720181,399,328,181(169,858,077)1,229,470,104本公司作为承租人租用了一些物业、运输设备，在原租赁准则下，
分类为经营性租赁。本公司于 2019 年 1 月 1 日采用新租赁准则后，
按照新租赁准则的要求将尚未支付的租赁付款额的现值确认为租赁
负债（详见附注四、26 和附注六、24）。2. 信贷承诺财务担保合同：银行承兑汇票保函款项备用信用证Financial guarantee contracts:Banker’s acceptanceLetter of guaranteeStandby letter of creditAs  a  lessee,  the  Bank  leased  some  properties  and  motor 
vehicles,  which  were  classified  as  operating  leases  under 
the original lease standard. The Bank adopted the new lease 
standard on 1 January 2019, and measured the lease liabilities 
at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid 
at the commencement date of the lease. (Note 4.26 and Note 
6.24).(2) Credit commitments31-12-201931-12-2018开出即期信用证Letter of credit, at sight开出远期信用证Letter of credit, usance小计Sub-total不可撤销的贷款承诺：Irrevocable loan commitments with original maturity of:原到期日在 1 年或以上More than one year小计合计Sub-totalTotal信贷承诺的信贷风险加权金额Weighted credit risk of credit commitments955,060,1981,055,760,7825,673,456,735470,790,885913,714,8889,068,783,4882,465,109,6122,465,109,61211,533,893,1004,239,864,309830,845,770669,177,6185,697,341,746248,314,222442,882,6097,888,561,9652,967,904,6382,967,904,63810,856,466,6033,530,586,357于资产负债表日，本公司没有中国境外的非流动资产。
 
(2) 主要客户信息   
在以摊余成本计量的贷款中，本公司来源于年末十大企业贷款客户
的利息收入为人民币人民币 1.68 亿元 （2018 年度：人民币 1.06 亿元），
占本公司贷款利息收入的 11%（2018 年度：8%）。八、承诺及或有负债1. 财务承诺资本性支出承诺已批准但未签约已签约但未拨付合计Approved but not contractedContracted but not provided forTotalThe Bank does not have any non-current asset held outside 
Mainland China as at the balance sheet date.(2) Major customer’s information
Among  loans  and  advances  to  customers  measured  at 
amortised cost, interest income of the Bank amounting to 
RMB 168 million comes from top ten largest corporate loan 
customers (2018: RMB106 million), which contributed 11 per 
cent of the total interest income for the year (2018: eight per 
cent).8. Commitments and contingent liabilities(1) CommitmentsCapital commitments31-12-201933,7884,112,8484,146,63631-12-20184,185,791796,5734,982,364经营性租赁承诺 - 承租人
本公司作为承租方与出租方签订了房屋和设备的不可撤销经营性
租赁合同。于各资产负债表日，本公司须就以下期间缴付的最低
租金为：Operating lease commitments-Lessee
The  Bank  leases  certain  premises  under  operating  lease 
arrangements. The total future minimum payments in respect 
of non-cancellable operating leases at the balance sheet date 
are as follows:一年以内（含一年）Within 1 year一年以上二年以内（含二年）1 to 2 years (contains 2 years)二年以上三年以内（含三年）2 to 3 years (contains 3 years)三年以上合计146After 3 yearsTotal31-12-201884,384,48623,101,25912,806,12810,046,547130,338,420财务担保合同具有担保性质，一旦客户未按其与受益人签订的合同偿
还债务或履行约定义务时，银行需履行担保责任。贷款承诺是指本公司作出的在未来为客户提供约定数额贷款的承诺。
贷款承诺一般附有有效期或终止条款，可能在到期前无需履行，故合
同约定的贷款承诺总金额并不一定代表未来的预期现金流出。Financial guarantee contracts, with the nature of guarantee, 
require  the  Bank  to  be  obliged  to  fulfil  the  customers’ 
responsibility as guarantor in case that the customers fail to 
repay the contracted amount or fail to fulfil their obligations.Loan commitments represent the commitment made by the 
Bank to its customer to grant a certain amount of loan in the 
future. Loan commitments are normally attached with an 
effective date or termination clause, and it is possible that 
the Bank may not need to fulfil such commitment on the 
maturity date. Hence, the amount of the loan commitments 
does  not  necessarily  represent  the  future  expected  cash 
outflow.1473. 受托业务委托资金委托贷款Entrusted depositsEntrusted loans委托理财资金委托理财资产Entrusted fundEntrusted asset委托资金是指存款者存于本公司的款项，仅用于向存款者指定的第三
方发放贷款之用。贷款相关的信贷风险由资金委托人承担。委托理财业务是指本公司按照与客户事先约定的投资计划和方式，以
客户支付的本金进行投资和资产管理，投资收益由本公司代为收取，
根据约定条件和实际投资收益向客户支付收益的业务。4. 或有负债据管理层意见，于 2019 年底，本公司除附注六、23 信贷承诺及财务
担保披露的或有负债外，并无其他或有负债。(3) Entrusted Business31-12-20192,212,509,2702,212,509,27031-12-20191,760,126,7531,760,126,75331-12-20182,488,874,7832,488,874,78331-12-20181,444,434,6741,444,434,674Entrusted deposits represent funds from depositors, which 
depositors have instructed the Bank to grant loans to third 
parties designated by them. The credit risk remains with the 
depositors.Entrusted wealth management business is the investment 
product  according  to  the  agreed  investing  plan  with  the 
clients. The investment principal is paid by the customers, 
which  would  be  managed  by  the  Bank.  The  Bank  would 
receive the investment profit on behalf of the customers 
and pay the profit to the customers based on the agreed 
conditions.(4) Contingent liabilitiesAs at 31 December 2019, according to the management, there 
was no other contingent liabilities except for items that have 
been disclosed in Note 6.23.九、资本管理9. Capital Management本公司采用足够能够防范本公司经营业务的固有风险的资本管理办
法，并且对于资本的管理符合监管当局的要求。本公司资本管理的目
标除了符合监管当局的要求之外，还必须保持能够保障经营的资本充
足率和使股东权益最大化。视乎经济环境的变化和面临的风险特征，
本公司将积极调整资本结构。本公司按照《商业银行资本管理办法（试行）》的规定，进行资本充
足率信息披露工作并持续完善信息披露内容。银保监会要求商业银行
核心一级资本充足率不得低于 5%，一级资本充足率不得低于 6%，资
本充足率不得低于 8%, 储备资本达到 2.5%。The Bank has adopted a strong capital management method 
to mitigate the inherent risk in the business operation and 
complied with the requirements of regulatory authorities 
on capital management. The Bank also targets to maintain 
sufficient  capital  adequacy  ratio  for  operations  and 
optimising  shareholders’  value.  The  Bank  may  adjust  its 
capital  structure  actively  to  adapt  with  the  change  of 
economic environment and related risk characteristics.The  Bank  calculates  and  discloses  capital  adequacy  ratio 
according  to Regulations Governing Capital of Commercial 
Banks (Provisional). CBIRC requires that a commercial bank’s 
core  tier-one  capital  adequacy  ratio,  tier-one  capital 
adequacy  ratio and capital adequacy ratio should not be 
lower than five per cent, six per cent, and eight per cent 
respectively, and reserve capital ratio should reach 2.5 per 
cent.本公司财务部负责对资本项目进行管理。核心一级资本包括实收资
本、资本公积可计入部分、其他综合收益可计入部分、盈余公积、
一般风险准备和未分配利润；本公司无其他一级资本；二级资本主
要包括二级资本工具及其溢价可计入金额和超额贷款减值准备。本公司按照《商业银行资本管理办法（试行）》的规定，计算的资
本充足率情况如下：The  Finance  Department  is  responsible  for  managing 
the  capital  of  the  Bank.  Core  tier-one  capital  includes 
paid-up  capital,  qualified  capital  reserve,  qualified  other 
comprehensive income, surplus reserves, general reserves 
and retained earnings. The Bank has no other tier-one capital. 
Tier-two capital mainly includes surplus provision for loan 
impairment, qualified Tier-two capital instruments and their 
premium.The  capital  adequacy  ratios  calculated  by  the  Bank  in 
accordance with Regulations Governing Capital of Commercial 
Banks (Provisional) are as follows:核心一级资本实收资本Core tier-one capitalPaid-up capital资本公积可计入部分Qualified capital reserve其他综合收益可计入部分Qualified other comprehensive income盈余公积一般风险准备未分配利润Surplus reservesGeneral reservesRetained earnings核心一级资本扣除项目Core tier-one capital deductions其他无形资产Other intangible assets核心一级资本净额Net core tier-one capital一级资本净额二级资本二级资本工具及其溢价
可计入金额
超额贷款减值准备总资本净额风险加权资产Net tier-one capitalTier-two capitalQualified tier-two capital instruments and their premiumSurplus provision for loan impairmentNet capitalRisk-weighted assets其中：信用风险加权资产Of which: Credit risk-weighted assets市场风险加权资产Market risk-weighted assets操作风险加权资产Operational risk- weighted assets核心一级资本充足率Core tier-one capital adequacy ratio一级资本充足率资本充足率Tier-one capital adequacy ratioCapital adequacy ratio本公司的资本充足率及相关数据是以按中国《企业会计准则》编制的
法定财务报表为基础进行计算的。本年度，本公司遵守了监管部门规
定的资本要求。31-12-20196,984,863,8025,500,000,00014,562,83042,888,850127,512,353816,675,492483,224,277102,639,668102,639,6686,882,224,1346,882,224,1341,538,173,594997,076,364541,097,2308,420,397,72851,044,400,21743,828,875,6404,881,780,5772,333,744,00013.5%13.5%16.5%31-12-20186,834,521,5915,500,000,00011,191,69720,281,719115,075,958826,398,940361,573,277103,322,284103,322,2846,731,199,3076,731,199,307473,567,800-473,567,8007,204,767,10751,416,343,30642,832,067,9936,502,870,5002,081,404,81313.1%13.1%14.0%The  capital  adequacy  ratios  and  related  components  of 
the  Bank  are  calculated  based  on  the  statutory  financial 
statements prepared under the Chinese Accounting Standards 
for Business Enterprises.  During  the  period,  the  Bank  has 
complied  with  the  capital  requirements  imposed  by  the 
regulator.148149此外，本公司根据中国银保监会颁布的《商业银行杠杆率管理办法》  
（银监会令 2011 年第 3 号）计算并披露杠杆率信息。截止 2019 年 12
月 31 日，本公司的杠杆率为 7.7%，符合最低 4% 的法规要求，相关信
息如下：In  addition,  the  Bank  calculates  and  discloses  leverage 
ratio according to Regulations Governing Leverage Ratio of 
Commercial Banks (CBIRC Ordinance [2011] No. 3). As at 31 
December 2019, the Bank’s leverage ratio was 7.7 per cent 
which was higher than the minimum regulatory requirement 
of four per cent. The relevant information is as follows:核心一级资本Core tier-one capital减：核心一级资本扣除项目Less: Core tier-one capital deductions核心一级资本净额Net core tier-one capital31-12-20196,984,863,802(102,639,668)6,882,224,13431-12-20186,834,521,591(103,322,284)6,731,199,307调整后表内资产余额Adjusted on balance sheet items64,373,330,86064,723,654,456调整后表外项目余额Adjusted off balance sheet items衍生产品资产余额Balance of derivatives证券融资交易资产余额Balance of assets in securities financing transactions合计杠杆率TotalLeverage ratio11,896,614,9659,558,746,2003,327,016,40010,941,078,21012,035,558,8823,283,790,00089,155,708,42590,984,081,5487.7%7.4%十、金融风险管理10. Financial Risk Management金融工具风险
本公司在日常活动中面临各种金融工具的风险，主要包括是信用风险、
流动性风险及市场风险 ( 包括汇率风险、利率风险 )。本公司的主要
金融工具包括货币资金、存放中央银行款项、存放同业款项、拆出资金、
衍生金融资产、买入返售金融资产、发放贷款和垫款、其他债权投资等。
与这些金融工具相关的风险，以及本公司为降低这些风险所采取的风
险管理策略如下所述。本公司的金融工具导致的主要风险是信用风险、流动性风险及市场风
险。本公司对此的风险管理政策概述如下。1. 信用风险
1.1 信用风险管理
信用风险是债务人或交易对手违约的风险，主要指银行的借款人或交
易对手不能按事先达成的协议履行其义务的潜在可能性。本公司的信
用风险主要来自于发放贷款和垫款，表外项目的信用风险主要来自于
开出信用证、各项担保款项和贷款承诺。信用风险的集中程度：当一定数量的客户在进行相同的经营活动时，
或处于相同的地理位置上或其行业具有相似的经济特性使其履行合约
的能力会受到同一经济变化的影响。信用风险的集中程度反映了银行
业绩对某一特定行业或地理位置的敏感程度。150Risk of Financial Instruments
The Bank is exposed to different types of risks. The most 
significant types of risk related to financial instruments are 
credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk(including foreign 
exchange  risk  and  interest  rate  risk).  The  Bank’s  financial 
instruments mainly include cash, deposit with the Central 
Bank,  due  from  banks  and  other  financial  institutions, 
placements  with  banks  and  other  financial  institutions, 
derivative financial assets, reverse repurchase financial assets, 
Loans and advances to customers, other debt instrument 
at fair value through other comprehensive income, and etc. 
These risks and the Banks strategy to minimize the negative 
impacts of the underlying financial risks are described below.The most significant types of risks to the Bank are credit risk, 
liquidity risk and market risk. The Bank's risk management 
strategy is outlined below.(1) Credit risk
(1.1) Credit risk management
Credit  risk is  the  risk  of loss  arising  from  a  borrower’s  or 
counterparty’s inability to meet its obligations as and when 
they fall due. The Bank’s credit risk exposure mainly arises from 
loans and advances to customers. Credit risk of off balance 
sheet items mainly arises from the letters of credit/guarantees 
issued as well as loan commitments.Credit risk concentration refers to the situation whereby 
there is a concentration of customers in the same business 
activities,  geographical  location,  or  industry  sector  with 
similar economic characteristics such that their repayment 
ability would be affected by the same economic fluctuations. 
Credit risk concentration reflects the sensitivity of the Bank’s 
performance to such customer concentration.本公司严格的授信前审查制度、授权审批制度和贷后的跟踪和上报机
制有效地降低和防范了信用风险。本公司定期对客户的经营状况进行
检查，对贷款质量进行分析并提取充足的贷款损失准备金。财务担保及贷款承诺产生的风险在实质上与贷款和垫款的风险相似。
因此，该类交易的申请、贷后管理以及抵质押担保要求等需要与贷款
和垫款业务相同。根据信用风险是否发生显著增加以及是否已发生信用减值，本公司对
不同的资产分别以 12 个月或整个存续期的预期信用损失计量减值准
备。预期信用损失计量的关键参数包括违约概率、违约损失率和违约
风险敞口。本公司考虑历史统计数据 ( 如交易对手评级、担保方式及
抵质押物类别、还款方式等 ) 的定量分析及前瞻性信息，建立违约概率、
违约损失率及违约风险敞口模型。相关定义如下：
•   违约概率是指债务人在未来 12 个月或在整个剩余存续期，无法履
行其偿付义务的可能性。本公司的违约概率以信贷周期指数 Z 值为基
础进行调整，加入前瞻性信息，以反映当前宏观经济环境下债务人违
约概率；•  违约损失率是指本公司对违约风险暴露发生损失程度作出的预期。
根据交易对手的类型、追索的方式和优先级，以及担保品的不同，违
约损失率也有所不同。违约损失率为违约发生时风险敞口损失的百分
比；•  违约风险敞口是指，在未来 12 个月或在整个剩余存续期中，在违约
发生时，本公司应被偿付的金额。信用风险显著增加的评估及预期信用损失的计算均涉及前瞻性信息。
本公司通过进行历史数据分析，识别出影响各行业、各业务类型信用
风险及预期信用损失的关键经济指标。这些经济指标对违约概率和违约损失率的影响，对不同的行业、业务
类型有所不同。本公司在此过程中应用了宏观数据及专家判断开展分
析，形成预测模型以及分析范式，每年定期获取新的输入数据，并按
照规范考量专家建议，将前瞻性因素作用于违约概率和违约损失率的
计算过程中。The Bank establishes a comprehensive set of policies and 
procedures  which  effectively  mitigate  and  control  credit 
risk. The procedures cover credit evaluation, credit approval, 
credit monitoring as well as reporting.  The Bank reviews the 
borrowers’  business  operations  periodically,  analyses  the 
quality of credit portfolio and ensures adequacy of loan loss 
provisions.The  risk  from  financial  guarantee  and  loan  commitments 
is similar with that from loans and advances to customers. 
Hence, the Bank adopts the same policies and procedures 
for managing credit contingencies which cover application, 
follow-up monitoring and collateral requirements, etc.Depending  on  whether  the  credit  risk  has  significantly 
increased and whether the asset is credit-impaired, the Bank 
measures the impairment provision for different assets with 
expected credit loss of 12 months or lifetime, respectively. 
The key parameters of expected credit loss measurement 
include probability of default (PD), loss given default (LGD) and 
exposure at default (EAD). The Bank takes into account the 
quantitative analysis of historical statistics (such as ratings of 
counterparties, manners of guarantees and types of collaterals, 
repayments, etc.) and forward-looking information in order to 
establish the models for estimating PD, LGD and EAD.Relative definitions are listed as below:
•The probability of default refers to the possibility that 
the  debtor  will  not  be  able  to  fulfil  its  obligation  of 
repayment in the next 12 months or the whole remaining 
lifetime. The  Bank’s PD is adjusted based on the credit 
cycle index Z and forward-looking information to reflect 
the default probability of the debtor under the current 
macroeconomic environment;•The loss given default refers to the Bank’s expectation of 
the extent of the loss resulting from the default exposure. 
Depending on the type of counterparty, the method and 
priority of the recourse, and the type of collaterals, the 
LGD varies. The loss given default is the percentage of risk 
exposure loss when default occurs;•The  exposure  at  default  is  the  amount  that  the  Bank 
should be reimbursed in the next 12 months or throughout 
the remaining lifetime when the default occurs.The assessment of significant increases in credit risk and the 
calculation of expected credit losses both involve forward-
looking information. Through the analysis of historical data, 
the Bank identifies the key macroeconomic indicators that 
affect the  credit risk and expected credit loss of various 
industries and business types.The impact of these economic indicators on probability of 
default and loss given default varies according to different 
types  of  industries  and  business  types.  The  Bank  applies 
experts’ judgement in this analysis, according to the result 
of experts’ judgement, the Bank predicts these economic 
indicators on a quarterly basis and determines the impact of 
these economic indicators on the probability of default and 
the loss given default by conducting regression analysis.151于资产负债表日，不考虑任何担保物及其他信用增级措施的最大信用
风险敞口详情如下：As  at  the  balance  sheet  date,  the  maximum  credit  risk 
exposure of the Bank without taking into consideration of 
collateral and other risk mitigation are set out below:1.5 信用质量
本公司各项金融资产（未扣除减值准备）的信用质量分析如下：存放中央银行款项Deposits with the Central BankPrecious metals31-12-20196,471,381,9521,162,708,34431-12-20186,295,131,421470,469,28031-12-2019Due from banks and other financial institutions1,852,438,9021,834,782,799现金及存放中央银行款项Cash and deposit with the Central BankPlacements with banks and other financial institutions7,499,846,22213,970,656,375(1.5) Credit quality 
The credit quality of financial assets of the Bank (excluding 
provisions) is analysed as follows:既未逾期也未减值  已逾期但未减值已减值Neither overdue nor 
impairedOverdue but not 
impairedImpaired合计Total6,478,213,2271,162,708,3441,858,694,1267,510,856,7981,425,658,3774,133,777,8893,254,101,612--6,478,213,227-1,162,708,3441,858,694,1267,510,856,7981,425,658,377-4,133,777,8893,254,101,612Precious metalsDue from Banks and other financial 
institutions
Placements with banks and other financial 
institutionsFinancial assets held-for-tradingDerivative financial assetsReverse repurchase financial assetsLoans and advances to customers35,700,541,353600,783224,011,30835,925,153,444Other debt instrument at fair value through 
other comprehensive incomeOther financial assetsTotal10,145,887,936323,164,553----10,145,887,936323,164,55371,993,604,215600,783224,011,308 72,218,216,306既未逾期也未减值  已逾期但未减值已减值Neither overdue nor 
impairedOverdue but not 
impairedImpaired合计Total6,306,043,483470,469,2801,841,092,17013,984,353,4171,472,009,4026,332,656,8753,291,640,111--------6,306,043,483470,469,2801,841,092,170-13,984,353,417---1,472,009,4026,332,656,8753,291,640,111Precious metalsDue from Banks and other financial 
institutions
Placements with banks and other financial 
institutionsFinancial assets held-for-tradingDerivative financial assetsReverse repurchase financial assetsLoans and advances to customers33,380,672,5818,228,759247,627,580 33,636,528,920Other debt instrument at fair value through 
other comprehensive incomeOther financial assetsTotal6,970,584,932250,062,732---6,970,584,9321,320,000251,382,73274,299,584,9838,228,759248,947,58074,556,761,322贵金属存放同业款项拆出资金交易性金融资产衍生金融资产买入返售金融资产发放贷款和垫款其他债权投资其他金融资产合计31-12-2018贵金属存放同业款项拆出资金交易性金融资产衍生金融资产买入返售金融资产发放贷款和垫款其他债权投资其他金融资产合计现金及存放中央银行款项Cash and deposit with the Central Bank贵金属存放同业款项拆出资金交易性金融资产衍生金融资产买入返售金融资产发放贷款和垫款其他债权投资其他金融资产合计Financial assets held-for-tradingDerivative financial assetsReverse repurchase financial assetsLoans and advances to customersOther debt instrument at fair value through other 
comprehensive incomeOther financial assetsTotal1,425,658,3771,472,009,4024,133,777,8893,253,748,3616,332,656,8753,289,256,52435,144,414,61232,922,090,26010,145,887,9366,970,584,932323,164,553251,382,73271,413,027,14873,809,020,60011,533,893,10010,856,466,60382,946,920,24884,665,487,203信贷承诺信用风险敞口（附注八、2） Credit commitments (Note 8.2)最大信用风险敞口Maximum credit risk exposure1.2 风险集中度
如交易对手集中于某一行业或地区，或共同具备某些经济特性，其信
用风险通常会相应提高。此外，不同行业和地区的经济发展均有其独
特的特点，因此不同的行业和地区的信用风险亦不相同。本公司主要为境内客户提供贷款及财务担保合同。本公司发放贷款和
垫款的行业集中度详情，请参看附注六、7.2。1.3 担保物
本公司根据交易对手的信用风险评估决定所需的担保物金额及类型。
本公司对接受担保物建立了相关的指南，包括对担保物评估频度作了
明确的要求。抵押物主要有以下几种类型 :—   对于商业贷款，担保物主要为现金及存款、银行担保、或房地产；
—  对于个人贷款，担保物为居民住宅。管理层要求业务相关部门监测担保物的市场价值并根据相关协议要求
追加抵押物，并在进行损失准备的充足性审查时充分考虑担保物的市
价变化。(1.2) Risk concentration
The concentration of borrowers/counterparties in the same 
industry  sector,  geographical  location  or  having  similar 
economic characteristics would tend to pose higher credit 
risk to the Bank. On the other hand, the level of credit risk 
may be varied from each industry or geographical location in 
view of their unique economic development characteristics.The  Bank  mainly  provides  loans  and  commitments/
guarantees  to  domestic  customers.  Analysis  on  industry 
sector concentration for the Bank’s loans and advances can 
be found at Note 6.7.2.(1.3) Collateral
The  amount  and  type  of  the  collateral  required  would 
depend on the credit risk of the borrowers/counterparties 
as assessed by the Bank. The Bank has established a guideline 
on  taking  collateral  including  the  frequency  of  collateral 
valuation.The main types of collateral include:-    For corporate and commercial loans, main collaterals takeninclude cash deposits, bank guarantee and properties; and-   For personal loans, collateral taken are mainly residentialproperties.The management requires relevant Business Units to monitor 
the market value of the collaterals and follow up with the 
borrowers/counterparties to top up collaterals in accordance 
with  the  relevant  provisions  of  the  loan  agreement.  The 
change in market value of the collateral would also be taken 
into consideration when reviewing the adequacy of loan loss 
provisions.152153既未逾期也未减值的发放贷款及垫款
下表按担保方式列示于资产负债表日既未逾期也未减值的贷款：Loans and advances that are neither overdue nor impaired
The  composition  of  loans  that  are  neither  overdue  nor 
impaired by collateral arrangement as at the balance sheet 
date is as follows:信用贷款保证贷款抵押贷款质押贷款合计Unsecured loansLoans secured by guaranteesLoans secured by mortgageLoans secured by pledgesTotal31-12-20194,911,545,8346,554,023,91619,709,763,1424,525,208,46135,700,541,35331-12-20186,412,734,7206,226,381,66415,964,443,9944,777,112,20333,380,672,581已逾期但未减值的发放贷款及垫款
于资产负债表日，已逾期但未减值的发放贷款及垫款账龄分析如下：Loans and advances that are overdue but not impaired
Aging analysis of loans that are overdue but not impaired as 
at the balance sheet date is as follows:1 个月以内 1 个月到 2 个月 2 个月到 3 个月3 个月以上Within 1 month1 to 2 months2 to 3 monthsMore than
 3 months合计Total31-12-2019所持有担保物
公允价值
Fair value of
 collaterals贷款及垫款Loans and advances 
to customers403,445197,338--600,783121,947,0001 个月以内 1 个月到 2 个月 2 个月到 3 个月3 个月以上Within 1 month1 to 2 months2 to 3 monthsMore than 
3 months合计Total31-12-2018所持有担保物
公允价值
Fair value of
 collaterals贷款及垫款Loans and advances 
to customers8,228,759---8,228,759167,365,200已减值的发放贷款及垫款
如果有客观证据表明发放贷款及垫款在初始确认后有一项或多项负
面情况发生，且该情况对贷款预计未来现金流量有影响且该影响能
可靠估计，则该发放贷款及垫款被认为是已减值贷款。这些贷款会
被评定为“次级”、“可疑”或“损失”类。于资产负债表日，本公司持有的已减值贷款的账面价值及涵盖减值
贷款的担保物的公允价值列示如下：减值贷款— 次级— 可疑— 损失合计Impaired loans- Substandard- Doubtful- LossTotal减值贷款的担保物The collateral value of impaired loans154Impaired loans and advances
Where there are objective evidences that a single or multiple 
negative events have occurred after the initial recognition of 
the loans and the impact from the events on the expected 
future  cash  flows  can  be  estimated  reliably,  the  relevant 
loans should be recognised as impaired loans. These loans 
are classified as “Substandard”, “Doubtful” or “Loss”.As at the balance sheet date, the carry amount of impaired 
loans and the fair value of collateral of impaired loans held 
by the Bank are as follows:31-12-201931-12-2018224,011,308--224,011,308357,376,740186,046,61861,580,962-247,627,580319,800,000上述抵押物的公允价值为本公司根据目前抵押物处置经验和市场状
况对最新可得的外部评估价值进行调整的基础上确定。经重组的发放贷款及垫款
本公司为了最大可能地回收贷款及管理客户关系，设立了贷款重组
政策，即与客户重新商定合同条款。于资产负债表日，本公司并未发生此类业务。2. 流动性风险
本公司保持充足的流动性以保障银行日常运营的开展，满足存款的
提款和贷款的发放，投资新项目以及支付到期的借款。因此，流动
性管理的主旨在于应付银行确定的及不可确定的资金需求。本公司流动性风险管理是在完整的风险管理框架下进行的，包含经
由资产负债委员会批准的各项政策、控制流程、风险限额。这些政
策、控制流程及风险限额确保本公司在不同的市场环境下有充足的
资金以应对流动性需求。这些措施包括通过多样化资金的来源及其
期限将资金集中度降至最小，以及持有高流动性债券。本公司在流动性风险管理方面采取保守立场，持续的吸收核心存款，
严格遵守流动性风险额度，保留充足的流动资产等措施来防范可能
出现的资金短缺。本公司通过主动分散存款的来源，以保持成本效率的均衡，资金的
持续可获得以及资金来源的多样化。通过竞争性定价管理银行的核
心存款以及维护客户的信心。本公司通过预测银行现金流来度量和管理流动性风险，现金流的预
测是基于“正常业务情景”和“压力情景”来进行。本公司设置现
金流错配限额来控制银行流动性风险敞口的同时，还采用流动性早
期预警指标和警戒线以揭示可能出现的危机状况。本公司在建立的
流动性应急计划中运用一系列的预警指标揭示可能发生的流动性危
机。在该应急计划中，本公司通过设立危机上报流程及包括融资、
沟通等危机处理策略来减少流动性危机所带来的负面影响。The fair value of collateral that the Bank holds is determined 
from the latest external valuation with necessary adjustment 
made  after  considering  the  Bank’s  own  experience  in 
collateral disposal as well as the current market conditions.Restructured loans and advances
The Bank has formulated a set of loan restructuring policies 
to renegotiate the contractual terms with customers in order 
to maximise the recovery of impaired loans as well as to 
manage customer relationships.No  transactions  were  conducted  by  the  Bank  as  at  the 
balance sheet date.(2) Liquidity risk 
The  Bank  maintains  sufficient  liquidity  to  fund  day-to-
day  operations,  to  meet  deposit  withdrawals  and  loan 
disbursements, to participate in new investments, and to 
repay borrowings. Hence, liquidity is managed in a manner 
to address both anticipated and unanticipated cash funding 
needs.Liquidity  risk  is  managed  in  accordance  with  a  complete 
framework of risk management, including-policies, controls 
and limits approved by the Asset and Liability Committee 
(ALCO). These policies, controls and limits are established 
to ensure that the Bank has sufficient funding to manage 
liquidity risk over a range of market conditions. These include 
minimising excessive funding concentrations by diversifying 
the  sources  and  terms  of  funding  as  well  as  maintaining 
a portfolio of debt securities with high quality and good 
liquidity.The Bank takes a conservative stance in liquidity management 
by continuing to gather core deposits, strictly complying 
with liquidity limits and retaining adequate liquid assets to 
prevent any possible cash shortfall.The  Bank  actively  dispersed  the  sources  of  deposits  to 
maintain a balance of cost efficiency, continued availability 
of funds and diversification of funding sources. Important 
factors in ensuring liquidity are competitive pricing, proactive 
management of the Bank core deposits and the maintenance 
of customer confidence.Liquidity risk is measured and managed on projected cash 
flow basis. Cash flow projection is monitored under both 
business-as-usual and stress scenarios. Cash flow mismatch 
limits are established to limit the Bank liquidity exposure. 
The  Bank  has  also  employed  liquidity  early  warning 
indicators and trigger points to signal possible contingency 
situations.  Contingency  funding  plans  have  been  set  up 
to  identify  potential  liquidity  crises  by  using  a  series  of 
warning indicators. Crisis management processes and various 
strategies including funding and communication have been 
developed to minimise the negative impact of any liquidity 
crunch.155计
合l
a
t
o
T限
期
无d
e
t
a
d
n
u上
以
年5年5至1年1至
月
个3月
个3至1内
月
个1e
v
o
b
a
 
s
r
a
e
y
 
5s
r
a
e
y
 
5
 
o
t
 
1r
a
e
y
 
1
 
o
t
 
s
h
t
n
o
m
 
3s
h
t
n
o
m
 
3
 
o
t
 
1h
t
n
o
m1
 
n
h
t
iiW9
1
0
2
-
2
1
-
1
3/
e
u
d
r
e
v
O还
偿
时
即/期
逾计
合l
a
t
o
T限
期
无d
e
t
a
d
n
u上
以
年5年5至1年1至
月
个3月
个3至1内
月
个1e
v
o
b
a
 
s
r
a
e
y
 
5s
r
a
e
y
 
5
 
o
t
 
1r
a
e
y
 
1
 
o
t
 
s
h
t
n
o
m
 
3s
h
t
n
o
m
 
3
 
o
t
 
1h
t
n
o
m1
 
n
h
t
iiW9
1
0
2
-
2
1
-
1
3/
e
u
d
r
e
v
O还
偿
时
即/期
逾d
n
a
m
e
d
n
O:
s
t
e
s
s
a
 
l
a
i
c
n
a
n
i
F：
产
资
融
金:
s
w
ol
lo
f
 
s
a
 
s
i9
1
0
2
 
r
e
b
m
e
c
e
D1
3
 
t
a
 
s
a
 
s
ei
t
i
l
ib
a
i
ld
n
a
 
s
t
e
s
s
a
 
l
a
i
c
n
a
ni
f
 
f
o
e
l
i
f
o
r
p
 
y
t
i
r
u
t
a
m
d
e
t
n
u
o
c
s
i
d
n
us
’
k
n
a
Be
h
T156：
下
如
析
分
日
期
到
的
现
折
经
未
债
负
融
金
及
产
资
融
金
的
司
公
本
，
日1
3月2
1年
9
1
0
2于,0
5
2
3
4
5
7
7
4
6,,,4
4
3
8
0
7
2
6
1
,
1,,7
9
4
3
5
2
3
5
8
,
1,0
0
1
,
6
3
5
0
4
5
7,,,8
8
9
7
0
4
6
2
4
,
1,,9
8
8
7
7
7
3
3
1
,
4,6
8
1
,
1
8
9
6
5
2
3,,,4
8
8
4
1
0
7
8
9
0
4,,,6
4
9
8
6
3
9
0
6
0
1,,,3
5
5
4
6
1
,
3
2
3--------,1
1
2
0
2
1
,
0
0
9
4,,4
4
3
8
0
7
2
6
1
,
1,,7
3
6
6
5
7
0
7
7
7
7,,,5
5
5
8
2
8
2
6
0
6,,-------------5
2
1
,
3
2
3
9
3
1
,
3,,0
0
3
5
7
4
,
1
9
3,0
0
0
8
7
7
5
2,,3
3
3
2
5
3
5
3
8,,0
6
0
7
7
9
8
8
2
,
1,----,7
6
2
2
7
4
0
0
1,,4
3
0
2
9
7
9
9
1,,3
3
8
2
6
4
6
7
4,,8
8
6
2
3
9
4
3
0
,
1,,3
6
0
9
0
2
5
9
9,2
4
1
,
0
5
7
4
2
9
3,,-3
3
4
,
1
6
4
8
8
9,---,7
5
4
4
3
0
,
1
0
2,9
2
7
6
4
9
5
5
0
3,,,9
3
0
3
2
4
7
7
5
,
1,-----6
9
1
,
9
8
9
2
5
5
,
1,r
e
h
t
o
d
n
a
 
s
k
n
a
b
h
t
iw
 
s
t
n
e
m
e
c
a
l
Ps
n
o
i
t
u
t
i
t
s
ni
 
l
a
i
c
n
a
n
i
fig
n
d
a
r
t
-
r
o
f
-
d
l
e
h
 
s
t
e
s
s
a
 
l
a
i
c
n
a
n
i
Fs
t
e
s
s
a
 
l
a
i
c
n
a
n
i
f
 
e
v
i
t
a
v
i
r
e
Ds
t
e
s
s
a
 
l
a
i
c
n
a
n
i
f
 
e
s
a
h
c
r
u
p
e
r
 
e
s
r
e
v
e
Re
h
t
 
h
t
iw
 
s
t
i
s
o
p
e
d
d
n
a
 
h
s
a
Ck
n
a
B
 
l
a
r
t
n
e
Cs
l
a
t
e
ms
u
o
i
c
e
r
Pr
e
h
t
o
d
n
a
 
s
k
n
a
b
m
o
r
f
 
e
u
Ds
n
o
i
t
u
t
i
t
s
ni
 
l
a
i
c
n
a
n
i
f--,6
0
3
9
1
5
,
1
2
9
7,,6
0
3
7
9
2
7
4
9
7,,,7
1
9
6
2
2
7
5
7
4
1,,-,6
1
8
4
1
4
3
5
1
,
6,,6
6
0
4
9
9
5
4
7
,
1
2,9
8
1
,
0
4
6
9
8
9
0
1,,3
9
7
,
1
7
6
3
2
2
5,,,9
1
5
4
6
8
4
5
9
,
1,0
6
1
,
2
9
0
0
4
1,s
r
e
m
o
t
s
u
c
 
o
t
 
s
e
c
n
a
v
d
a
 
d
n
a
 
s
n
a
o
L,5
5
9
5
8
6
5
2,,3
2
6
5
6
5
4
8
5
2,,-3
0
6
,
1
4
5
2
6
8,,2
5
2
7
6
6
9
1
4
8
1,,,4
0
7
4
2
3
4
9
8
8,,,4
0
9
6
4
8
8
0
0
,
1,,8
9
5
8
7
4
7
9
2,,9
5
3
0
4
1
,
0
3
4
,
1
1--,5
9
3
4
0
5
0
7
2
3,,t
a
 
t
n
e
m
u
r
t
s
ni
 
t
b
e
d
 
r
e
h
t
Or
e
h
t
o
h
g
u
o
r
h
t
 
e
u
l
a
v
 
r
i
a
fe
m
o
c
nie
v
i
s
n
e
h
e
r
p
m
o
cs
t
e
s
s
a
 
l
a
i
c
n
a
n
i
f
 
r
e
h
t
Os
t
e
s
s
a
 
l
a
i
c
n
a
n
i
f
 
l
a
t
o
T项
款
行
银
央
中
放
存
及
金
现项
款
业
同
放
存属
金
贵金
资
出
拆产
资
融
金
性
易
交产
资
融
金
生
衍产
资
融
金
售
返
入
买款
垫
和
款
贷
放
发资
投
权
债
他
其产
资
融
金
他
其计
合
产
资
融
金,8
2
8
6
4
7
8
9
4,,9
7
3
2
4
8
3
0
7
3
1,,,0
9
5
5
1
2
7
3
1
,
4,5
7
1
,
0
3
4
0
1
6
9
3,,,2
4
5
5
9
7
3
8
1
,
3,,6
4
6
4
6
4
0
2
7,,8
1
0
9
8
8
3
4
0
3,,,0
5
2
6
7
4
5
3
3,,8
2
4
0
6
8
3
3
2
5
6,,,9
0
2
6
9
8
6
3
5
2
1,,---------,5
5
5
8
2
8
2
6
0
6,,-------9
7
1
,
0
3
1
,
9
19
7
1
,
0
3
1
,
9
17
2
1
,
7
6
1
,
8
2
9
7,0
0
1
,
3
9
8
3
3
5
,
1
1,---,7
8
8
6
4
5
4
1
2
2,,--,8
7
4
2
4
0
4
4
1
,
1,,8
2
4
7
4
7
6
3
2
2,,-,0
4
3
3
9
5
5
1
4
6,,,6
2
7
0
0
4
0
3
3
5
1,,,3
1
3
3
0
0
7
3
5
3,,,7
4
5
6
5
2
0
2
8,4
7
7
,
1
0
0
0
7
2
,
1,,5
3
4
2
0
5
6
4
1
,
1,,9
6
5
7
7
3
,
1
0
0
8,,3
8
0
0
5
3
5
6
0
2,,,0
2
3
4
0
0
0
7
3
7,,,0
8
8
0
0
8
2
4
3
7,,--0
9
5
,
1
4
1
,
7
0
87
0
1
,
2
4
2
,
1
3
3,4
0
3
4
4
0
9
6
0
8
1,,,2
4
5
5
9
7
3
8
1
,
3,---,3
1
3
4
9
7
6
7
8
3
1,,,8
4
9
2
2
6
0
5
3,),9
0
6
9
6
4
2
8
9
4
(,,,0
4
8
7
6
5
2
2
4
,
1,-,5
5
6
4
2
3
,
1
8
8,8
6
2
0
8
2
,
1
2
3
,
1
1,6
4
6
4
6
4
0
2
7,-3
4
1
,
4
3
2
4,2
5
5
,
1
7
8
9
4
3
4
1,,)
3
9
1
,
1
3
7
9
1
9
2
(,,--,9
2
2
2
0
3
2
3
4
2
1,,----,0
4
7
6
2
4
3
0
5
2
1,,,)
5
4
3
2
2
9
2
3
2
9,,(,3
2
8
4
8
0
3
4
8
5,,,6
8
5
9
8
0
3
0
7
,
1,,1
1
4
5
8
2
8
4
3,,7
6
9
9
2
4
2
0
1,,4
4
9
6
7
2
9
8
2,,3
7
3
5
4
3
8
3
1,-,1
1
5
4
2
1
,
1
7d
n
a
m
e
d
n
Ol
a
i
c
n
a
n
i
f
 
r
e
h
t
o
d
n
a
 
s
k
n
a
b
o
t
 
e
u
Ds
n
o
i
t
u
t
i
t
s
nir
e
h
t
o
d
n
a
 
s
k
n
a
b
m
o
r
f
 
s
t
n
e
m
e
c
a
l
Ps
e
i
t
i
l
ib
a
i
l
 
l
a
i
c
n
a
n
i
f
 
e
v
i
t
a
v
i
r
e
Ds
n
o
i
t
u
t
i
t
s
ni
 
l
a
i
c
n
a
n
i
f-
r
o
f
-
d
l
e
h
 
s
e
i
t
i
l
ib
a
i
l
 
l
a
i
c
n
a
n
i
Fig
n
d
a
r
ts
t
i
s
o
p
e
d
 
r
e
m
o
t
s
u
C构
机
融
金
他
其
及
业
同项
款
放
存金
资
入
拆债
负
融
金
生
衍款
存
收
吸债
负
融
金
性
易
交:
s
e
i
t
i
l
ib
a
i
l
 
l
a
i
c
n
a
n
i
F：
债
负
融
金s
t
n
e
m
e
e
r
g
a
 
e
s
a
h
c
r
u
p
e
R款
产
资
融
金
购
回
出
卖s
e
i
t
i
l
ib
a
i
l
 
l
a
i
c
n
a
n
i
f
 
r
e
h
t
Os
e
i
t
i
l
ib
a
i
l
 
l
a
i
c
n
a
n
i
f
 
l
a
t
o
Td
e
u
s
s
i
 
s
e
i
t
i
r
u
c
e
s
 
t
b
e
Ds
t
n
e
mt
im
m
o
Cy
t
i
d
u
qii
l
 
t
e
N债
负
融
金
他
其计
合
债
负
融
金额
净
性
动
流项
事
诺
承
外
表券
债
付
应计
合l
a
t
o
T限
期
无d
e
t
a
d
n
u上
以
年5年5至1年1至
月
个3月
个3至1内
月
个1e
v
o
b
a
 
s
r
a
e
y
 
5s
r
a
e
y
 
5
 
o
t
 
1r
a
e
y
 
1
 
o
t
 
s
h
t
n
o
m
 
3s
h
t
n
o
m
 
3
 
o
t
 
1h
t
n
o
m1
 
n
h
t
iiW8
1
0
2
-
2
1
-
1
3/
e
u
d
r
e
v
O还
偿
时
即/期
逾d
n
a
m
e
d
n
O:
s
t
e
s
s
a
 
l
a
i
c
n
a
n
i
F：
产
资
融
金:
s
w
ol
lo
f
 
s
a
 
s
i8
1
0
2
 
r
e
b
m
e
c
e
D1
3
 
t
a
 
s
a
 
s
ei
t
i
l
ib
a
i
ld
n
a
 
s
t
e
s
s
a
 
l
a
i
c
n
a
ni
f
 
f
o
e
l
i
f
o
r
p
 
y
t
i
r
u
t
a
m
d
e
t
n
u
o
c
s
i
d
n
us
’
k
n
a
Be
h
T：
下
如
析
分
日
期
到
的
现
折
经
未
债
负
融
金
及
产
资
融
金
的
司
公
本
，
日1
3月2
1年
8
1
0
2于,3
8
4
3
4
0
6
0
3
6,,,0
8
2
9
6
4
0
7
4,,0
1
0
8
6
6
,
1
4
8
,
1,1
1
8
2
3
7
6
4
1
,
4
1,,0
8
2
2
9
3
3
0
5
,
1,,5
7
8
6
5
6
2
3
3
6,,6
4
5
,
1
3
0
6
9
2
3,,,0
8
6
4
5
6
9
4
2
9
3,,,2
8
2
6
4
9
6
8
1
,
7,6
0
4
,
1
7
7
3
5
2,--------3
8
1
,
6
3
8
2
4
7
4,,,0
8
2
9
6
4
0
7
4,,3
5
6
6
6
3
7
8
5
0
8,,,3
6
4
5
0
3
3
1
2
5,,----,9
0
2
2
2
4
7
5,----,0
3
5
6
4
1
,
6
5
1-------6
3
7
,
1
0
4
0
5,6
8
4
,
1
0
5
,
1
0
3,4
8
7
3
5
7
7
7
4,,6
1
9
6
8
8
7
3
7,,1
4
8
2
8
1
,
4
7,0
8
5
7
6
0
7
2
6
6,,,6
7
3
4
1
0
2
3
8
2,,,5
5
8
0
5
6
7
8
6
4,,--,0
8
6
2
7
2
6,7
6
0
,
1
7
8
9
1
5
3,,-,7
1
7
7
0
1
,
2
2
9,9
5
0
6
1
0
0
0
6,,2
5
3
9
8
3
4
8
2
,
1,,4
3
5
7
5
6
0
0
1,,2
1
0
4
7
3
5
9
1
,
3,,7
6
7
5
3
9
8
2
2
8,,4
0
9
,
1
3
2
0
0
8
,
1
1,8
3
8
,
1
1
4
7
4
6
,
1
1,,5
2
3
0
9
1
,
9
1
9
4,,7
0
5
2
1
6
8
4
4
2,,---,3
8
2
2
8
3
0
4
1
,
2,,6
5
6
0
3
6
2
9
2
8,,4
8
7
,
1
3
6
6
1
6
7
1,,,7
2
0
6
3
2
5
2,,0
9
0
0
3
7
2
2
9
2,,,6
3
0
7
0
3
2
2
6
2
2,,,9
8
7
3
6
5
2
6
8,0
2
1
,
0
7
2
,
1
6
2
,
1-,9
7
3
5
3
5
8
2
2,,5
3
7
0
3
7
2
0
1
,
0
1,,2
5
5
6
1
5
,
1
8
4
3
1,,0
0
3
7
0
2
3
6
5
,
1,e
h
t
 
h
t
iw
 
s
t
i
s
o
p
e
d
d
n
a
 
h
s
a
Ck
n
a
B
 
l
a
r
t
n
e
C-s
l
a
t
e
ms
u
o
i
c
e
r
P------,8
8
7
4
6
7
9
8
4
,
1,,9
3
3
2
7
2
5
0
2,,7
2
4
4
4
2
8
5
2
3,,r
e
h
t
o
d
n
a
 
s
k
n
a
b
h
t
iw
 
s
t
n
e
m
e
c
a
l
Ps
n
o
i
t
u
t
i
t
s
ni
 
l
a
i
c
n
a
n
i
fig
n
d
a
r
t
-
r
o
f
-
d
l
e
h
 
s
t
e
s
s
a
 
l
a
i
c
n
a
n
i
Fs
t
e
s
s
a
 
l
a
i
c
n
a
n
i
f
 
e
v
i
t
a
v
i
r
e
Ds
t
e
s
s
a
 
l
a
i
c
n
a
n
i
f
 
e
s
a
h
c
r
u
p
e
r
 
e
s
r
e
v
e
Rs
r
e
m
o
t
s
u
c
 
o
t
 
s
e
c
n
a
v
d
a
 
d
n
a
 
s
n
a
o
Lt
a
 
t
n
e
m
u
r
t
s
ni
 
t
b
e
d
 
r
e
h
t
Or
e
h
t
o
h
g
u
o
r
h
t
 
e
u
l
a
v
 
r
i
a
fe
m
o
c
nie
v
i
s
n
e
h
e
r
p
m
o
cs
t
e
s
s
a
 
l
a
i
c
n
a
n
i
f
 
r
e
h
t
Os
t
e
s
s
a
 
l
a
i
c
n
a
n
i
f
 
l
a
t
o
Tr
e
h
t
o
d
n
a
 
s
k
n
a
b
m
o
r
f
 
e
u
Ds
n
o
i
t
u
t
i
t
s
ni
 
l
a
i
c
n
a
n
i
f项
款
行
银
央
中
放
存
及
金
现项
款
业
同
放
存属
金
贵金
资
出
拆产
资
融
金
性
易
交产
资
融
金
生
衍产
资
融
金
售
返
入
买款
垫
和
款
贷
放
发资
投
权
债
他
其产
资
融
金
他
其计
合
产
资
融
金计
合l
a
t
o
T限
期
无d
e
t
a
d
n
u上
以
年5年5至1年1至
月
个3月
个3至1内
月
个1e
v
o
b
a
 
s
r
a
e
y
 
5s
r
a
e
y
 
5
 
o
t
 
1r
a
e
y
 
1
 
o
t
 
s
h
t
n
o
m
 
3s
h
t
n
o
m
 
3
 
o
t
 
1h
t
n
o
m1
 
n
h
t
iiW8
1
0
2
-
2
1
-
1
3/
e
u
d
r
e
v
O还
偿
时
即/期
逾d
n
a
m
e
d
n
O:
s
e
i
t
i
l
ib
a
i
l
 
l
a
i
c
n
a
n
i
F：
债
负
融
金,1
2
4
7
8
6
0
7
3
3,,3
1
9
,
1
9
6
5
9
0
,
1,3
5
2
,
1
8
8
4
9
5,,8
5
6
7
7
5
4
0
1
,
1,,8
7
6
4
6
7
4
5
6
9,,7
5
4
,
1
3
7
6
8
7
3,,,1
2
8
0
8
8
6
8
5
3,,--,7
1
0
0
9
6
7
0
4,2
6
2
,
1
5
0
6
3
1,-,3
8
3
9
1
0
4
3,,6
5
7
0
5
2
2
9
7
9,,,2
8
4
4
4
0
5
2
0
7,,,2
5
7
3
9
7
2
3
1
,
9,1
5
1
,
9
4
1
,
3
0
2
0
1,s
t
i
s
o
p
e
d
 
r
e
m
o
t
s
u
C,2
6
6
0
6
7
7
7
5,,6
5
9
6
7
3
8
2
0
7
1,,,9
2
0
7
1
9
,
1
7
1
,
6,3
6
6
4
4
7
,
1
1
4
7
3,,8
0
6
3
2
6
2
3
7
2,,5
3
2
,
1
4
3
0
7
2,,3
4
6
7
5
5
5
6
7
2,,,0
0
8
5
0
3
8
9
6,,6
9
5
7
2
6
6
5
6
7
6,,---------,7
5
0
9
3
7
0
3
9
2
1,,,3
6
4
5
0
3
3
1
2
5,,-----,4
8
7
8
7
0
6,,4
8
7
8
7
0
6,2
7
8
,
1
5
5
6
8
2
8,,----,3
0
6
6
6
4
6
5
8
0
1,,-----,2
2
5
6
0
5
8
5
2
,
1,,3
7
5
3
2
9
5
9
0
,
1,,6
1
5
7
1
1
,
5
2
7
5,,8
6
2
4
1
5
,
1
9
8
,
1
1,5
0
3
0
4
9
8
2
9
2,,,3
0
6
7
8
4
3
2
9,,7
6
4
6
4
1
,
6
4
7-8
7
1
,
7
6
0
2
9
8,,4
4
6
7
9
9
4
6
1
,
1,,6
8
7
8
5
5
5
7
6,--5
3
2
,
1
4
3
0
7
2,,6
6
9
9
1
8
4
9
6,-,4
3
8
5
8
4
3,----,1
1
1
,
2
7
7
0
6
4
3
2,,5
6
5
2
5
8
3
5
4
3
1,,,6
8
0
8
3
6
3
7
7
4
1,,,4
3
5
8
6
1
,
7
3
2
0
1,,)
5
7
0
5
6
4
8
3
8,()0
3
8
,
1
2
1
,
1
5
3
3
(,)
4
3
5
,
1
2
1
,
2
9
2
,
1
()
7
0
1
,
4
2
9
8
7
9
6,,(,8
3
6
6
2
4
5
0
3
4,,,2
3
5
6
2
2
0
4
5
2,,,4
1
9
9
3
4
5
0
0
,
1,,4
1
2
3
3
4
6
7,l
a
i
c
n
a
n
i
f
 
r
e
h
t
o
d
n
a
 
s
k
n
a
b
o
t
 
e
u
Ds
n
o
i
t
u
t
i
t
s
nir
e
h
t
o
d
n
a
 
s
k
n
a
b
m
o
r
f
 
s
t
n
e
m
e
c
a
l
Ps
e
i
t
i
l
ib
a
i
l
 
l
a
i
c
n
a
n
i
f
 
e
v
i
t
a
v
i
r
e
Ds
n
o
i
t
u
t
i
t
s
ni
 
l
a
i
c
n
a
n
i
f-
r
o
f
-
d
l
e
h
 
s
e
i
t
i
l
ib
a
i
l
 
l
a
i
c
n
a
n
i
Fig
n
d
a
r
t构
机
融
金
他
其
及
业
同项
款
放
存金
资
入
拆债
负
融
金
生
衍款
存
收
吸债
负
融
金
性
易
交s
t
n
e
m
e
e
r
g
a
 
e
s
a
h
c
r
u
p
e
R款
产
资
融
金
购
回
出
卖s
e
i
t
i
l
ib
a
i
l
 
l
a
i
c
n
a
n
i
f
 
r
e
h
t
Os
e
i
t
i
l
ib
a
i
l
 
l
a
i
c
n
a
n
i
f
 
l
a
t
o
Td
e
u
s
s
i
 
s
e
i
t
i
r
u
c
e
s
 
t
b
e
Ds
t
n
e
mt
im
m
o
Cy
t
i
d
u
qii
l
 
t
e
N债
负
融
金
他
其计
合
债
负
融
金项
事
诺
承
外
表额
净
性
动
流券
债
付
应1573. 市场风险
本公司面临的市场风险主要来自利率和汇率产品的敞口头寸。本公
司的交易性业务及非交易性业务均可产生市场风险。本公司市场风
险管理的目标是避免收入和权益由于市场风险产生的过度损失，同
时降低本公司受金融工具内在波动性风险的影响。本公司由风险管理部总览全行的市场风险敞口，并负责拟制相关市
场风险管理政策报送资产负债委员会和执行委员会批准，并定期将
银行市场风险敞口汇报给资产负债委员会和董事会风险管理委员
会。本公司按照既定标准和当前管理能力监管市场风险，其主要的监管
方法包括敏感性分析、风险价值、压力测试等。在新产品或新业务
上线前，该产品和业务中的市场风险将按照规定予以辨识。本公司根据不同账户的各自特点将表内外资产负债划分为交易账户
或银行账户。交易账户主要包括因交易目的或者是为规避交易账户
其他项目风险而持有的可自由交易的金融工具和商品头寸。交易账
户中的市场风险取决于交易的工具，包括利率、汇率、信贷利差、
商品价格、外汇波动率等。银行账户包括除交易账户外的其他金融
工具。银行账户中的主要风险是利率和信贷利差风险。3.1 汇率风险
主要是由于本公司资产和负债的货币错配以及外汇交易无法及时规
避风险敞口以至于暴露于市场波动而引起的风险。(3) Market risk
The  Bank  is  exposed  to  market  risk  mainly  from  foreign 
exchange rate and interest rate related products arising from 
trading as well as non-trading businesses. The objective of 
market risk management is to avoid the excessive loss due to 
market risk and minimise the negative impact of volatility of 
financial instruments on the Bank’s earnings and equity.The Risk Management Division monitors the Bank’s market 
risk  exposure  and  formulates  market  risk  policies  for 
approval by the Asset Liability Committee and the Executive 
Committee. Risk profile reports are submitted to the Asset 
Liability Committee and Board Risk Management Committee 
on a regular basis.The Bank measures and manages its market risk in accordance 
with a framework of policies and practices which include 
sensitivity  analysis,  Value-at-Risk  measure,  stress  testing 
etc. In addition, the market  risk associated with any new 
product/business is required to be identified and addressed 
prior to launch.The  Bank  divides  the  balance  sheet  assets  and  liabilities 
into  the  trading  book  or  banking  book  according  to  the 
characteristics of different accounts. Trading book mainly 
includes free trading financial instruments and commodity 
positions held for the purpose of trading or for avoiding the 
risk of other items in the transaction account. The market 
risk in trading book depends on the tools of the transactions, 
including  interest  rates,  exchange  rates,  credit  spreads, 
commodity  prices  and  foreign  exchange  volatility,  etc. 
Banking book includes other financial instruments outside 
the trading book. The main risk in the banking book is the risk 
of interest rates and credit spreads.(3.1) Currency risk 
The  Bank’s  currency  risk  arises  mainly  from  currency 
mismatches  of  assets  and  liabilities  as  well  as  foreign 
exchange trading business whereby the open positions are 
subject to exchange rate fluctuations.于 2019 年 12 月 31 日，本公司的有关资产及负债按币种列示如下：As at 31 December 2019, the Bank’s assets and liabilities by 
currency are as follows:31-12-2019美元人民币其他合计USD 
(RMB equivalent)RMBOthers 
 (RMB equivalent)Total 
 (RMB equivalent)资产：Assets:现金及存放中央银行款项 Cash and deposit with the Central Bank1,260,954,0345,212,572,4174,016,7996,477,543,250贵金属Precious metals-1,162,708,344-1,162,708,344存放同业款项Due from banks and other financial institutions845,841,112849,748,279156,849,5111,852,438,902拆出资金Placements with banks and other financial 
institutions6,371,849,3161,102,036,93425,959,9727,499,846,222交易性金融资产Financial Assets held-for-trading-1,425,658,377衍生金融资产Derivative financial assets246,252,2703,887,525,619买入返售金融资Reverse repurchase financial assets-3,253,748,361---1,425,658,3774,133,777,8893,253,748,361发放贷款和垫款Loans and advances to customers4,768,459,64629,403,144,366972,810,60035,144,414,612其他债权投资Other debt instrument at fair value through other 
comprehensive income-10,145,887,936-10,145,887,936其他金融资产Other financial assets63,043,364258,083,4802,037,709323,164,553金融资产合计Total financial assets13,556,399,74256,701,114,1131,161,674,59171,419,188,446负债：Liabilities:同业存放及
其他金融机构存放款项拆入资金Due to banks and other financial institutions14,027,319478,042,559-492,069,878Placements from banks and other financial 
institutions10,858,156,4302,354,453,493246,342,51213,458,952,435交易性金融负债Financial liabilities held-for-trading1,545,0473,181,631,577衍生金融负债Derivative financial liabilities255,635,9793,881,579,611--3,183,176,6244,137,215,590吸收存款应付债券Customer depositsDebt securities issued卖出回购金融资产款Repurchase agreements5,958,865,12533,183,078,325364,144,87839,506,088,328--2,745,552,507720,292,241--2,745,552,507720,292,241其他金融负债Other financial liabilities77,250,939224,726,61433,498,697335,476,250金融负债合计Total financial liabilities17,165,480,83946,769,356,927643,986,08764,578,823,853资产负债净头寸Net position(3,609,081,097)9,931,757,186517,688,5046,840,364,593衍生金融工具名义金额Notional amounts of derivative financial 
instruments205,397,564,415 405,088,300,6244,077,731,796614,563,596,835信贷承诺Commitments3,008,815,4765,160,895,7893,364,181,83511,533,893,100158159于 2018 年 12 月 31 日，本公司的有关资产及负债按币种列示如下：As at 31 December 2018, the Bank’s assets and liabilities by 
currency is as follows:以下是在其他变量不变的情况下，外币对本位币汇率可能发生的合
理变动对税前利润的影响。31-12-2018美元USD 
(RMB equivalent)人民币RMB其他合计Others 
 (RMB equivalent)Total 
 (RMB equivalent)资产：Assets:现金及存放中央银行款项 Cash and deposit with the Central Bank908,618,6095,394,193,3991,425,3906,304,237,398贵金属Precious metals-470,469,280-470,469,280存放同业款项Due from banks and other financial institutions692,998,5381,000,674,252141,110,0091,834,782,799变量变动Change in Foreign Exchange Rate对本位币贬值 1%-1% change against RMB对本位币升值 1%+1% change against RMB以上敏感性分析基于资产和负债具有静态的汇率风险结构，其计算
了当其他因素不变时，外币对人民币汇率的合理可能变动对税前利
润的影响。拆出资金Placements with banks and other financial 
institutions10,757,664,9262,974,071,498238,919,95113,970,656,375有关的分析基于以下假设：交易性金融资产Financial Assets held-for-trading138,237,6361,333,771,766衍生金融资产Derivative financial assets45,790,112  6,286,866,763买入返售金融资产Reverse repurchase financial assets-3,289,256,524---1,472,009,4026,332,656,8753,289,256,524(1)   汇率敏感度是指各币种对人民币于报告日当天收盘 ( 中间价 ) 汇率绝对值波动 1% 造成的汇兑损益；(2)   各币种汇率变动是指各币种对人民币汇率同时同向波动；发放贷款和垫款Loans and advances to customers5,342,135,21026,748,541,753831,413,29732,922,090,260(3)   该汇率风险敞口不包含资产负债表表外科目。其他债权投资Other debt instrument at fair value through other 
comprehensive income-6,970,584,932-6,970,584,932其他金融资产Other financial assets13,973,811236,300,1301,108,791251,382,732金融资产合计Total financial assets17,899,418,842 54,704,730,2971,213,977,43873,818,126,577负债：Liabilities:同业存放及
其他金融机构存放款项拆入资金Due to banks and other financial institutions417,234571,314,146-571,731,380Placements from banks and other financial 
institutions15,093,932,262750,378,333919,983,67916,764,294,274交易性金融负债Financial liabilities held-for-trading1,013,224,6231,707,270,592衍生金融负债Derivative financial liabilities81,970,145 6,089,946,884--2,720,495,2156,171,917,029吸收存款应付债券Customer depositsDebt securities issued卖出回购金融资产款Repurchase agreements5,805,005,872 31,035,212,200414,419,96037,254,638,032--2,652,640,383270,207,863--2,652,640,383270,207,863其他金融负债Other financial liabilities149,675,179513,198,87135,431,750698,305,800金融负债合计Total financial liabilities22,144,225,315 43,590,169,2721,369,835,38967,104,229,976资产负债净头寸Net position(4,244,806,473)11,114,561,025(155,857,951)6,713,896,601衍生金融工具名义金额Notional amounts of derivative financial 
instruments257,460,713,790 386,420,316,3684,869,480,163648,750,510,321由于基于上述假设，汇率变化导致本公司汇兑净损益出现的实际变
化可能与此敏感性分析的结果不同。3.2 利率风险
交易账户
交易账户主要包括因交易目的或者是为规避交易账户其他项目风险
而持有的可自由交易的金融工具和商品头寸。交易账户中的市场风
险取决于交易的工具，包括利率、汇率、股权价格、商品价格、信
贷利差等。本公司目前使用标准法计量监管要求下的市场风险资本，使用内部
模型法计量和监控交易账户市场风险。本公司于 2019 年 1 月 2 日起改用 97.5% 置信区间下测算日预期损
失 (Expected Shortfall) 的历史模拟法进行内部交易账户市场风险计
量和监控，取代之前采用的 99% 置信区间下测算日风险价值（VaR 
-Value at Risk）的历史模拟法。历史模拟法认为诸如利率、汇率和
商品价格等风险因子在未来的变动特征可以通过观察其历史数据得
到。与风险价值 (VaR) 度量相比，预期损失 (ES) 包含了超出设定置
信度水平的极端损失，在历史模拟的过程中考虑了尾部损失的分布，
是尾部损失分布的均值。Commitments1,904,330,862    5,426,966,0653,525,169,67610,856,466,603信贷承诺160Holding  all  other  variables  constant,  the  impact  from  a 
change in foreign exchange rates on profit before tax of the 
Bank is as follows:31-12-2019对税前利润影响
 Impact on profit30,913,926(30,913,926)31-12-2018对税前利润影响
 Impact on profit44,006,644(44,006,644)The sensitivity analysis above is performed on the basis that 
assets and liabilities have static currency risk structure. It 
shows the impact of a change in other currency rates against 
RMB on the Bank’s profit before tax, given other variables 
remain constant.The analysis is based on below assumptions:(1)   Exchange rate sensitivity refers to the gains and losses 
caused by one per cent change of the closing rate (mid 
rate) of the different foreign currencies against RMB as at 
the balance sheet date;(2)    Exchange rate fluctuation refers to the fluctuation againstRMB in the same direction simultaneously; and(3)    Off-balance sheet items are excluded.Due  to  the  above  assumptions,  the  actual  impact  of 
exchange rate fluctuation on the Bank’s earnings may differ 
from above sensitivity analysis.(3.2) Interest rate risk
Trading Book
Trading  book  mainly  includes  freely  tradable  financial 
instruments  and  commodity  positions  held  for  trading 
purpose  or  to  avoid  risks  of  other  items  in  the  trading 
account. The market risk in trading book depends on the 
instrument  of  the  transaction,  including  interest  rates, 
exchange rates, equity prices, commodity prices, and credit 
spreads, etc.The Bank currently adopts the Standardised Approach for 
the calculation of regulatory market risk capital but uses the 
Internal Models Approach to measure and control trading 
market risks.From  2  January  2019,  the  Bank  switched  to  the  historical 
simulation method of daily Expected Shortfall (ES) within 
the  97.5  per  cent  confidence  interval  to  measure  and 
monitor  market  risk  of  the  trading  book,  replacing  the 
previous method of daily Value at Risk (VaR) within a 99 per 
cent confidence interval. The historical simulation method 
assumes that possible future changes in market rates such as 
interest rates, foreign exchange rates and commodity prices 
may be implied by observed historical market movements. 
Compared with the VaR measure, the ES includes extreme 
losses that exceed a set level of confidence. The tail loss 
distribution is considered in the historical simulation process, 
which is the average of the tail loss distribution.161风险价值（VaR）是一种统计度量方法，测算在一定的置信区间和
时间段内的潜在损失。在回溯测试中，本公司采用历史模拟法 99%
置信区间下的日风险价值（VaR）。通过回溯测试比较交易账户的
损益与风险价值（VaR）的差异来验证该方法的可靠性。通过对回
溯测试结果的分析，找出是否是因为模型缺陷或市场波动导致其中
不符合预期的结果，所有回溯测试反映的问题及解决方案都将汇报
至资产负债委员会。虽然 VaR 和 ES 是衡量市场风险的重要工具，但有关模型的假设存
在一定限制条件，例如：—  在绝大多情况下，可在 1 个交易日的观察期内进行仓盘套期或 
      出售的假设合理，但在市场长时期严重流动性不足的情况下，1 个
       交易日的观察期假设可能不符合实际情况；
—VaR 和 ES 按当日收市基准计算，并不反映交易当天持仓可能面
对的风险。
历史数据用作确定将来结果的可能范围的基准，不一定适用于
所有可能情况，特别是例外事项。—为弥补预期损失 (ES) 测量法的不足，本公司借助压力测试及情景测
试，找出银行在面对某些极端情景时可能出现的损失。这些测试为
主动市场风险管理提供了早期预警信息，以应对可能的极端损失。本公司 2019 年 12 月 31 日的日预期损失 (ES) 为人民币 680 万元（2018
年 12 月 31 日：风险价值 (VaR) 为人民币 567 万元）。银行账户
资产负债委员会负责总揽利率风险管理框架的有效性。资产负债风
险管理部协助资产负债委员会负责监测银行账户下的利率风险。利率风险管理的主要目标就是在多样化的经济环境中，通过管理银
行的净利息收入来保护并促进银行资本和经济价值的增长。本公司使用分析工具，包括重定价期限和敏感性分析定量测算银行
账户利率风险敞口。通过对利率敏感资产负债相对于利率变动的分
析，揭示利率变动对利息收入及经济价值潜在影响。利率敏感度受
重新定价期限、币种及隐含的期权的影响。相比于短期错配，长期
的利率错配对利率头寸价值的影响更大。VaR  is  a  statistical  measure  of  potential  losses  over  a 
certain confidence interval and time period. For backtesting 
purpose,  the  Bank  uses  daily  VaR  within  a  99  per  cent 
confidence interval over a one-day holding period, based 
on the historical simulation method. The VaR measures are 
backtested against profit and loss of the trading book to 
validate the robustness of the methodology. The backtesting 
process analyses whether the exceptions are due to model 
deficiencies or market volatility. All backtesting exceptions 
are  tabled  at  the  ALCO  with  recommended  actions  and 
resolutions.Although VaR and ES are important tools to measure market 
risk, there are some restrictions on the assumptions of the 
model, such as:---In  most  cases,  the  assumption  that  a  position  can  be 
hedged  or  sold  within  an  observation  period  of  one 
trading  day  is  reasonable,  but  in  the  case  of  severe 
liquidity shortage in the market over a long period of 
time, the assumption of an observation period of one 
trading day may not be in line with the actual situation;
VaR  and  ES  are  calculated  based  on  the  day’s  closing 
benchmark and do not reflect the risks that positions may 
face on the trading day; and
Historical data, used as a benchmark for determining the 
possible range of future outcomes, may not apply to all 
possible situations, especially exceptions.To  complement  the  ES  measure,  the  Bank  perform  stress 
and scenario tests to identify the vulnerability to event risk. 
These  tests  serve  to  provide  early  warnings  of  plausible 
extreme losses for which proactive management of market 
risk is taken.The Bank’s daily ES on 31 December 2019 was RMB6.80 million 
(The  Bank’s  daily  VaR  on  31  December  2018  was  RMB5.67 
million).Banking book
The ALCO maintains oversight of the effectiveness of the 
interest rate risk management structure. The Balance Sheet 
Risk  Management  (BSRM)  Division  supports  the  ALCO  in 
monitoring the interest rate risk profile of the banking book.The  primary  objective  of  interest  rate  risk  management 
is  to  protect  and  to  enhance  capital  or  economic  net 
worth through adequate, stable and reliable growth in net 
interest earnings under a broad range of possible economic 
conditions.Banking book interest rate risk exposure is quantified using 
analysis  tools  include  repricing  schedules  and  sensitivity 
analysis. They provide indications of the potential impact of 
interest rate changes on interest income and economic value 
through the analysis of the sensitivity of assets and liabilities 
to changes in interest rates. Interest rate sensitivity varies 
with different repricing periods, currencies and embedded 
options  mismatches  in  the  longer  tenor  will  experience 
greater impact in the price-value of interest rate positions 
than similar positions in the shorter tenor.本公司亦采用如净利息收入和净资产经济价值定量分析方法定期进
行利率风险压力测试 , 以管理银行的资本金应对因为利率的大幅波
动对银行资产负债表的影响。同时，该压力测试也用于对极端情况
下可能发生高额损失的早期预警并促进银行在快速波动的市场环境
下积极地管理利率风险。由于利率，汇率和股权价格变化带来交易账户下的风险通过市场风
险管理框架来进行管理和监控。于 2019 年 12 月 31 日，本公司银行账户包含的所有的资产及负债按合
同重定价日或到期日两者较早者分析如下：The Bank also performs quantitative analysis method of net 
interest income and economic value of net assets regularly 
to determine the adequacy of capital in meeting the impact 
of extreme interest rate movements on the balance sheet. 
Such  tests  are  also  performed  to  provide  early  warnings 
of  potential  extreme  losses,  facilitating  the  proactive 
management of interest rate risks in an environment of rapid 
financial market changes.The risks arising from the trading book, such as interest rates, 
foreign exchange rates and equity prices are managed and 
controlled under the market risk framework.As  at  31  December  2019,  the  Bank’s  assets/liabilities  of 
banking  book  re-pricing  profiles  (based  on  the  earlier  of 
maturity date and re-pricing date) is as follows:31-12-2019资产：Assets:3 个月内 3 个月至 1 年
Within 3  
3 months  
to 1 year
months1 至 5 年 5 年以上
5 years 
above1 to 5 years不计息
Non-interest 
bearing合计
Total现金及存放中央银行款项存放同业款项拆出资金买入返售金融资产发放贷款及垫款其他债权投资其他金融资产金融资产合计Cash and deposit with the 
Central Bank
Due from banks and other 
financial institutions
Placements with banks and other 
financial institutions
Reverse repurchase financial 
assets6,183,916,3021,325,476,216--5,097,104,8782,381,911,0333,246,187,571------ 293,626,9486,477,543,250---457,7741,325,933,99020,830,3117,499,846,2227,560,7903,253,748,361Loans and advances to customers 26,721,599,050
Other debt instrument at 
fair value through other 
comprehensive income
Other financial assets1,797,653,080-7,052,510,65561,345,5694,063,521320,353,11034,159,871,9052,421,439,8205,776,267,010----150,528,02610,145,887,93638,800,68938,800,689Total financial assets44,371,937,09711,855,861,5085,837,612,5794,063,521832,157,64862,901,632,353负债：Liabilities:同业及其他金融机构存放
款项拆入资金吸收存款Due to banks and other financial 
institutions
Placement from banks and other 
financial institutions208,871,450280,000,000-3,458,521,6817,881,005,2941,995,800,000Customer deposits30,913,772,7597,225,059,3481,027,111,683卖出回购金融资产款Repurchase agreements720,000,000--应付债券其他金融负债金融负债合计Debt securities issuedOther financial liabilities--709,614,8711,995,411,133--Total financial liabilities35,301,165,89016,095,679,5135,018,322,816衍生金融资产（注）Derivative financial assets (Note)214,885,200224,633,640衍生金融负债（注）Derivative financial liabilities 
(Note)212,901,803224,981,292-----------3,198,428492,069,878123,625,460 13,458,952,435340,144,538 39,506,088,328292,241720,292,24140,526,5032,745,552,50799,349,86399,349,863607,137,033 57,022,305,252--439,518,840437,883,095利率风险缺口Net position9,072,754,604(4,240,165,657)819,289,7634,063,521 225,020,6155,880,962,846162163于 2018 年 12 月 31 日，本公司银行账户包含的所有的资产及负债按合
同重定价日或到期日两者较早者分析如下：As  at  31  December  2018,  the  Bank’s  assets/liabilities  of 
banking  book  re-pricing  profiles  (based  on  the  earlier  of 
maturity date and re-pricing date) is as follows:31-12-2018本公司对浮动利率工具按照重定价日，对固定利率工具按照到期日
管理计息金融资产及计息金融负债的重定价情况。以下是在其他变量不变的情况下，利率可能发生的合理变动对净损
益、其他综合收益的税后净额及所有者权益方面的影响。资产：Assets:现金及存放中央银行款项存放同业款项拆出资金买入返售金融资产款发放贷款及垫款其他债权投资其他金融资产金融资产合计Cash and deposit with the 
Central Bank
Due from banks and other 
financial institutions
Placements with banks and other 
financial institutions
Reverse repurchase financial 
assetsLoans and advances to customers
Other debt instrument at 
fair value through other 
comprehensive income
Other financial assets3 个月内 3 个月至 1 年
3 months  
Within 3  
months
to 1 year5,998,412,9141,221,613,188--10,671,910,8433,194,023,8133,281,412,098-1 至 5 年 5 年以上
5 years 
above1 to 5 years不计息
Non-interest 
bearing合计
Total-----  305,824,4846,304,237,398---1,322,7411,222,935,929104,721,71913,970,656,3757,844,4263,289,256,52425,573,129,8186,047,602,91838,209,5094,128,037  369,506,466  32,032,576,7482,103,737,9402,789,405,8301,999,841,390-----77,599,772  6,970,584,93264,133,11564,133,115Total financial assets48,850,216,80112,031,032,5612,038,050,8994,128,037 930,952,72363,854,381,021负债：Liabilities:同业及其他金融机构存放
款项拆入资金吸收存款Due to banks and other financial 
institutions
Placement from banks and other 
financial institutions169,434,195401,000,00013,603,989,8343,073,414,143--Customer deposits26,253,378,8169,581,199,0991,139,584,346卖出回购金融资产Repurchase agreements270,000,000--Debt securities issued746,146,467874,187,603997,323,573Other financial liabilities---应付债券其他金融负债金融负债合计------1,297,185571,731,38086,890,29716,764,294,274280,475,77137,254,638,032207,863270,207,86334,982,7402,652,640,383119,050,206119,050,206Total financial liabilities41,042,949,31213,929,800,8452,136,907,919- 522,904,06257,632,562,138衍生金融资产（注）Derivative financial assets (Note)6,719,845,4162,608,258,632衍生金融负债（注）Derivative financial liabilities 
(Note)6,657,859,9832,634,802,951----8,408,1299,336,512,1777,679,310   9,300,342,244利率风险缺口Net position7,869,252,922(1,925,312,603)(98,857,020)4,128,037 408,777,4806,257,988,816注：本公司银行账户包含的衍生金融资产 / 负债按名义本金的合同
重定价日或到期日两者较早者进行分析。Note: The derivative financial assets/liabilities of banking book are analysed 
based on the earlier of re-pricing date and maturity date of the nominal principal.变量变动Change in interest rate利率增加 100 个基点利率减少 100 个基点+ 100 basis points-  100 basis points以上敏感性分析基于资产和负债具有静态的利率风险结构。有关的
分析仅衡量一年内利率变化，反映为一年内本公司资产和负债的重
新定价对本公司按年化计算利息收入的影响，基于以下假设：(1)  所有在三个月内及三个月后但一年内重新定价或到期的资产和负债均假设在有关期间中间重新定价或到期；(2)  收益率曲线随利率变化而平行移动；(3)  资产和负债组合并无其他变化；(4)  此利率风险敞口不包含除衍生金融工具以外的资产负债表表外科目。由于基于上述假设，利率增减导致本公司利息净收入出现的实际变
化可能与此敏感性分析的结果不同。4. 公允价值公允价值，是指市场参与者在计量日发生的有序交易中，出售一项
资产所能收到或者转移一项负债所需支付的价格。在交易活跃之市
场 ( 例如认可证券交易所 ) 存在的条件下，市价乃金融工具公允价
值之最佳证明。然而，本公司所持有及发行之部分金融资产及负债
并无市价。因此，对于该部分无市价可依之金融工具，以如下所述
之现值或其他估计方法估算公允价值。但是，运用此等方法所计之
价值会受有关未来现金流量数额，时间性假设，以及所采用之折现
率影响。The Bank profiles its interest bearing assets and liabilities 
based on maturity date for fixed rate items or re-pricing date 
for floating rate items.Holding other variables constant, the impact of interest rate 
movement on the Bank’s net profit, other comprehensive 
income after tax and equity is as follows:31-12-2019对净损益的影响Impact on net profit47,614,486(47,614,486)31-12-2018对净损益的影响Impact on net profit46,227,031(46,227,031)The sensitivity analysis above is performed on the basis that 
assets and liabilities have static interest rate risk structure. 
It  reflects  the  impact  of  interest  rate  movement  on  the 
Bank’s net interest income over a one-year period. The key 
assumptions are as follows:(1)  All assets and liabilities with re-pricing date less than 
three months or between three months and one year are 
assumed to be re-priced in the middle of the respective 
time bucket;(2)  Yield curve shifts in parallel with interest rate change;(3)  Assets and liabilities are not subject to other changes;and(4)    Off-balance sheet items except derivative financial 
        instruments are excluded.Due  to  the  above  assumptions,  the  actual  impact  of  net 
interest income from interest rate movement may differ from 
above sensitivity analysis.(4) Fair value of financial instrumentsFair  value  is  the  price  that  would  be  received  to  sell  an 
asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction 
between  market  participants  at  the  measurement  date. 
Subject  to  the  existence  of  an  active  market,  such  as  an 
authorised securities exchange, the market value is the best 
reflection of the fair value of financial instruments.  As there 
is no available market value for some of the financial assets 
and liabilities held and issued by the Bank, the discounted 
cash  flow  method  or  other  valuation  methods  described 
below  are  adopted  to  determine  the  fair  value  of  these 
assets and liabilities.  However, the value determined by such 
methods would depend on the amount of future cash flows, 
time period assumption and discount rates used.164165所采用之方法及假设如下：The  following  methods  and  assumptions  are  used  in 
estimating fair values:(i)  以公允价值计量且其变动计入当期损益的金融资产 / 金融负债
（包括衍生金融资产 / 金融负债）乃参考可供参照之市价计算
其公允价值。倘无可供参照之市价，则将现金流量折现估算公
允价值或参照交易对方的报价确定公允价值。公允价值等于此
等项目之账面金额；(i)(ii)  于 12 个月内到期之其他金融资产金融负债由于期限较短，它们的账面价值与公允价值相若；(iii)  凡定息贷款按当时适用于类似贷款之市场利率贷出，其公允价
值以参照市场利率方法估算。贷款组合中信贷质量之变化在确
定总公允价值时不予考虑，因为信贷风险之影响将单独作为贷
款损失，从账面值及公允价值中扣除；(iv)  客户存款乃按不同品种使用固定或浮动利率。活期存款及无指
定届满期之储蓄账户假设结算日按通知应付金额为公允价值。
有固定期限之存款的公允价值以现金流量折现法估算，折现率
为与该定期存款的剩余期限对应的现行存款利率。本公司确定公允价值的方法可以归结为以下两种：(i)     市值计价：计价是运用独立并未经调整的市场报价；(ii)    估值计价：计价是运用估值技术进行估值。估值调整作为实现公允价值的一个必要组成，要求根据客观情况，
对交易价格进行调整以确保公允价值的准确性。本公司遵循的估值
调整方法考虑到不同的因素，例如买卖价差估值调整和模型估值调
整，以确保计价的合理有效。本公司建立了内部控制机制来确保公允价值的合理性。如果采用模
型式估值，模型中的假设和技术都会事先经过独立专家小组的专门
验证。此外，模型中的价格、输入参数、假设和估值调整方法都会
经过核实和复查。其他的估值控制还包括复核和分析日常盈亏。Financial  assets  at  fair  value  through  profit  or  loss 
(including derivative assets/liabilities) are stated at fair 
value by reference to the quoted market prices when 
available.  If quoted market prices are not available, the 
fair value is estimated using discounted cash flows or 
quoted  price  from  the  counter  parties.  The  carrying 
amounts of these items reflect the fair value as at the 
balance sheet date;(ii)  The fair values of other financial assets and liabilities 
maturing within 12 months are assumed to be equal to 
their carrying amounts in view of their short maturity;(iii)  The fair value of fixed rate loans priced at market rate 
at the time the loans are extended shall be determined 
using prevailing market rates of similar loans. Changes 
in the credit quality of loans within the portfolio are 
not  taken into account in determining  the  fair values 
as the impact of credit risk is recognised separately as 
impairment provision which shall be deducted from the 
carrying amounts and fair value;(iv)  Customer  deposits  are priced based  on  fixed rate  or 
floating rate depending on the product type.  The fair 
value of demand deposits and saving deposits without 
specific maturity date is determined based on the amount 
payable on demand.  The fair value of fixed deposits are 
estimated using discounted cash flows method with the 
prevailing deposit rate for the remaining tenor of the 
fixed deposit as the discount rate.The method of determining a fair value in the Bank can be 
categorised into two main approaches:(i)  Mark to Market - where the valuation uses independentunadjusted quoted market prices;(ii)  Mark to Model - where valuation techniques are used todetermine the valuation.Valuation adjustments are an integral part of the fair value 
process that  requires the exercise of  judgment to  ensure 
correct  fair  value  representation.  In  making  appropriate 
valuation adjustments, the Bank follows the methodologies 
that  consider  factors  such  as  bid-offer  spread  valuation 
adjustment and model valuation adjustment.The  Bank  has  established  internal  control  procedures 
over the valuation process to provide assurance over the 
appropriateness  of the fair values  applied. If fair value is 
determined  by  valuation  models,  the  assumptions  and 
techniques within the models are independently validated 
by a specialist group. In addition, price and parameter inputs, 
assumptions  and  valuation  adjustments  are  subject  to 
verification and review processes. Other valuation control 
includes review and analysis of daily profit and loss.本公司将所有进行公允价值估值的金融产品划分为三个层次：第一层次：公开市场价格
这种估值技术运用相同资产和负债的活跃市场报价得出估值金额。
被归纳此层次的金融产品包括由中央国债登记结算有限公司每日公
布市场价格的债券。第二层次：估值输入参数可以通过市场观察得到的估值技术
这种估值方式是通过标准模型确定，而输入的主要参数都能在市场
上直接观察。这种技术包括现金流折现分析、期权定价模型和一些
市场参与者普遍使用和接受的技术。被纳入这个层次的金融产品主
要为外汇远期，外汇互换，贵金属远期 / 互换及柜台交易的衍生
品（如货币市场拆借、利率互换、外汇期权、买断式转贴现），并
包括公允价值由交易对手提供的金融产品（如背对背对冲结构性产
品）。第三层次：当主要参数不能直接观察得到时采用的估值技术
这种估值技术运用合理市场假设的基础上获取主要不可观察参数。
目前本公司还没有相关的金融产品被归纳在这个层次。以上各假设及方法乃为本公司资产及负债之公允价值提供一致之计
算准则。然而，由于其他机构或会使用不同之方法及假设，各金融
机构所披露之公允价值未必完全具有可比性。The Bank classifies all the fair value instruments according to 
the following hierarchy:Level 1: Quoted market price
This  valuation  technique  uses  recent  unadjusted  quoted 
prices  for  identical  assets  or  liabilities  in  active  markets 
where the price represents actual and regularly occurring 
market  transactions  on  an  arm’s  length  basis.  Financial 
instruments included in this class are bonds with the marked-
to-market prices actively made available and announced by 
China Central Depository and Clearing Co. Ltd.Level 2: Valuation technique using observable inputs
This valuation technique is used for financial instruments 
where  the  prices  are  derived  from  standard  valuation 
models, and significant inputs to these models are directly 
observable.  The  valuation  techniques  include  the  use  of 
discounted cash flow analysis, option pricing models and 
other  valuation  techniques  widely  used  and  accepted  by 
market  participants.  The  financial  instruments  included 
in this category are mainly foreign exchange forward and 
foreign exchange swaps, precious metals forward and swaps, 
and  OTC  derivatives  (namely  money  market  deposit  and 
placement,  interest  rate  swap,  FX  option,  rediscounted 
bills) and financial instruments with fair value derived from 
counterparty (for structured products arranged on back-to-
back basis).Level 3: Valuation technique with significant non-observable 
inputs 
This  valuation  technique  is  used  where  at  least  one 
significant input is not observable and reliance is placed on 
reasonable assumptions made on market conditions. There is 
currently no financial instrument being classified under such 
category.All the assumptions and methods mentioned above provide 
a consistent basis for the calculation of fair value of the 
Bank’s assets and liabilities. However, other institutions may 
use different assumptions and methods. Therefore, the fair 
values disclosed by different financial institutions may not be 
entirely comparable.166167下表列示了以公允价值计量的金融工具的公允价值层次：The  following  table  shows  the  fair  value  hierarchy  of 
financial instruments measured in fair value:贵金属交易性金融资产衍生金融资产Precious metalsFinancial assets held-for-tradingDerivative financial assets发放贷款和垫款 - 黄金租借 Loans and advances to customers-gold loan其他债权投资金融资产合计交易性金融负债衍生金融负债金融负债合计Other debt instrument at fair value through other 
comprehensive income
Total financial assetsFinancial liabilities held-for-tradingDerivative financial liabilitiesTotal financial liabilities公允价值计量使用的输入值 
Inputs in fair value measurement重要可观察输入值Significant observable inputs( 第二层次 )(Level 2)31-12-20191,162,708,3441,425,658,3774,133,777,889981,432,22810,145,887,93617,849,464,7743,183,176,6244,137,215,5907,320,392,21431-12-2018470,469,2801,472,009,4026,332,656,875885,500,9316,970,584,93216,131,221,4202,720,495,2156,171,917,0298,892,412,244本年度，本公司未发生以公允价值计量的第一层次和第二层次金融
资产和负债之间的转换。管理层认为，于年末，本公司的其他金融资产和金融负债的公允价
值与相应的账面价值并无重大差异。During the year, the Bank had no transfers between level 1 
and level 2 of the fair value hierarchy for financial assets and 
liabilities which were recorded at fair value.In the opinion of the management, the difference between 
the fair value and the carrying amount of other financial 
assets and financial liabilities is not material as at the balance 
sheet date.十一、关联方关系及交易1. 关联方的认定标准于本年度，下列各方构成本公司的关联方：(1) 本公司的母公司；(2) 本公司的子公司；11. Related party transactions(1) Criteria of identifying related parties
Details  of  the  Bank’s  major  related  parties  in  2019  are  as 
follows:(1) Parent company of the Bank;(2) Subsidiary of the Bank;(3) 与本公司受同一母公司控制的其他企业；(3) Entities under control of the same parent company;(4) 对本公司实施共同控制的投资方；(4) Investors exercise joint control over the Bank;(5) 对本公司施加重大影响的投资方；(5) Investors exercise significant influence over the Bank;(6) 本公司的合营企业；(7) 本公司的联营企业；(6) Joint ventures of the Bank;(7) Affiliated company of the Bank;(8) 本公司的主要投资者个人及与其关系密切的家庭成员；(8) Main individual investors of the Bank or the close family 
members;(9) 本公司的关键管理人员或母公司关键管理人员，以及与其关系密切的家庭成员；(9)  Key  management  personnel  of  the  Bank  or  parent 
company, and the close family members;(10) 本公司的主要投资者个人、关键管理人员或与其关系密切的家庭成员控制、共同控制的其他企业；(10) Other companies controlled or jointly controlled by the 
Bank's major investors, key management personnel or close 
family members;(11) 本公司设立的企业年金基金。(11) Annuity established by the Bank.2. 本公司母公司                                                                       (2) Parent company of the Bank名称
Name业务性质
Business Nature注册地
Registered Address大华银行有限公司银行及金融服务新加坡股本
Share Capital7,325 百万新币United Overseas Bank LimitedBanking and Financial ServiceSingaporeSGD 7,325 Million拥有权益比例
Shareholding100%100%1681693. 于本年内与本公司有关联交易的其他关联方(3) The related parties which the Bank had transactions   
during the year are as follows:同受母公司控制的公司
Company under the common control of parent company
名称
Name业务性质
Business Nature大华银行（马来西亚）有限公司
United Overseas Bank (Malaysia) Bhd.银行及金融服务
Banking and Financial Service注册地
Registered Address
马来西亚 吉隆坡
Kuala Lumpur Malaysia注册资本
Registered Capital法定代表人
Legal Representative马来西亚林吉特 20 亿元
RM 2 Billion黄金松
Wong Kim Choong大华银行（泰国）有限公司
United Overseas Bank (Thai) Public 
Company Limited银行及金融服务
Banking and Financial Service泰国 曼谷
Bangkok Thailand泰铢 248.6 亿元
THB 24.86 Billion陈俊兴
Tan Choon Hin大华银行（印度尼西亚）有限公司
PT Bank UOB Indonisia银行及金融服务
Banking and Financial Service印度尼西亚 雅加达
Jakarta Indonesia印尼盾 23,884.71 亿元
IDR 2,388,471 Million林世约
Lam Sai Yoke上海华新置业有限公司
UOB Property China Co., Ltd.房地产开发、经营、租赁和管理
Real estate development, operating, 
leasing and management中国 上海
Shanghai China人民币 22.59 亿元
RMB 2.259 Billion符懋赞
Peter Foo优欧弼投资管理（上海）有限公司
UOB Venture Management (Shanghai) 
Co., Ltd投资管理，自有资产管理，
投资咨询
Consulting and investment 
management中国 上海
Shanghai China美元 1,555 万元
USD 15.55 Million谢建伟
Seah Kian Wee大华资产管理有限公司
UOB Asset Management Co., Ltd资产管理
Investment management新加坡
Singapore新币 6,300 万元
SGD 63,000,000Thio Boon Kiat受本公司关键管理人员重大影响的公司
Company under the significant infuence of the Bank’s key management名称
Name华业（厦门）酒店有限公司
Hua Ye Xiamen Hotel Limited业务性质
Business Nature经营管理酒店
Hotel management天津华业希望房地产开发有限公司
Tianjin UOL Xiwang Real Estate Co., Ltd.房地产开发
Real estate development庆隆（上海）投资管理有限公司
Kheng Leong (Shanghai) Investment  
Management Co., Ltd厦门虎标医药有限公司
Xiamen Tiger Medicals Co., Ltd.商务信息、企业管理及
投资管理咨询
Business information consulting, 
Corporate management consulting, 
Investment management consulting制造和销售国药产品
Manufacture and sale of Chinese 
pharmaceutical products注册地
Registered Address注册资本
Registered Capital法定代表人
Legal Representative中国 厦门
Xiamen China中国 天津
Tianjin China美元 3,700 万元
USD 37 Million人民币 10.3 亿元
RMB 1.03 Billion梁顺合
Neo Soon Hup陈建守 
Tan Kian Siew中国 上海
Shanghai China美元 650 万元
USD 6.5 Million黄一超
Wee Ee Chao中国 厦门
Xiamen China美元 820 万元
USD 8.2 Million吴美蓉
Goh Bee Leong虎豹企业有限公司
Haw Par Corporation Limited投资控股
Investment holding新加坡
Singapore新币 2.66227926 亿元
SGD 266.227926 Million黄祖耀
Wee Cho Yaw新嘉置地（成都）发展有限公司
Singland (Chengdu) Development Co., Ltd.房地产开发、经营、租赁和管理Real estate development, 
operating, leasing and management中国 成都
Chengdu China美元 2,400 万元
USD 24 MillionLee Ngai Hon上海锦鹏置业有限公司
Shanghai Jin Peng Realty Co., Ltd.房地产开发及经营
Real estate development and operation中国 上海
Shanghai China人民币 23 亿元
RMB 2.3 BillionLim Beng Teong注册地
Registered Address Registered Capital注册资本法定代表人
Legal Representative御道津旅（天津）发展有限公司
UIC JinTravel (Tianjin) Co., Ltd.中国 北京
Beijing China美元 150 万元
USD 1.5 million曹映雪
Cao Ying Xue新型建筑材料生产、写字楼、公寓酒店、
商业设施的销售、租赁、管理
Manufacturing of new construction 
materials, sale, lease and management 
of office buildings, apartment hotel, 
commercial facilities中国 天津
Tianjin China人民币 2.406 亿元
RMB 240.6 Million林福山
Lim Hock San受母公司重大影响的公司
Company under the significant infuence of the parent company
名称
Name
益诺丰企业管理咨询 ( 北京 )
有限公司
InnoVen Enterprise Management 
Consulting (Beijing) Co., Ltd.企业管理咨询服务
Business Management 
Consulting Service业务性质
Business Nature上海锦骏置业有限公司
Shanghai Jin Jun Realty Co., Ltd.房地产开发及经营
Real estate development and operation中国 上海
Shanghai China人民币 7.191 亿元
RMB 719.1 MillionLim Beng Teong溢诺丰融资租赁有限公司
InnoVen Financial Leasing Co., Ltd.融资租赁业务及兼营
与主营业务相关的商业保理业务
Financial leasing;
business factoring related 
to main business中国 天津
Tianjin China美元 1,000 万元
USD 10 million曹映雪
Cao Ying Xue泛太平洋（上海）酒店管理有限公司
Pan Pacific (Shanghai) Hotel Management 
Co., Ltd.酒店管理、投资咨询、企业管理咨询
Hotel management, investment consulting 
and corporate management consulting中国 上海
Shanghai China美元 5 万元
USD 50,000梁顺合
Neo Soon Hup本公司的关键管理人员Key management personnel关键管理人员，包括本公司的董事、监事及高级管理人员。Key management personnel include directors, supervisor and 
senior management.1701714. 本公司与关联方之主要交易(4) Main transactions between the Bank and related parties发放贷款和垫款Loans and advances to customers31-12-201931-12-2018余额 
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)余额 
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)御道津旅（天津）发展有限公司 UIC JinTravel (Tianjin) Co., Ltd.105,206,039上海锦骏置业有限公司Shanghai Jin Jun Realty Co., Ltd.合计Total72,215,026177,421,0650.290.200.4956,538,55732,470,41689,008,9730.170.100.27存放及拆放款项Due from and placement with banks31-12-201931-12-2018余额 
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)余额 
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)大华银行有限公司United Overseas Bank Limited682,051,368大华银行（马来西亚）有限公司 United Overseas Bank (Malaysia) Bhd.1,301,269大华银行（泰国）有限公司United Overseas Bank (Thai) Public 
Company Limited.合计Total258,916683,611,5537.280.01-227,486,146665,70493,1217.29228,244,9711.44--1.44吸收存款Customer deposits31-12-201931-12-2018余额 
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)余额 
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)上海锦鹏置业有限公司Shanghai Jin Peng Realty Co., Ltd474,882,349上海华新置业有限公司UOB Property China Co., Ltd.399,860,078优欧弼投资管理（上海）有限公司新嘉置地（成都）发展有限公司UOB Venture Management 
(Shanghai) Co., Ltd
Singland (Chengdu) Development 
Co., Ltd.195,792,396144,625,7271.20 505,017,8591.01346,130,2760.50 228,933,1520.37127,403,635溢诺丰融资租赁有限公司InnoVen Financial Leasing Co., Ltd.50,971,9360.1335,565,142泛太平洋（上海）酒店管理有限公司Pan Pacific (Shanghai) Hotel 
Management Co., Ltd.15,689,4460.0410,205,312御道津旅（天津）发展有限公司UIC Jin Travel (Tianjin) Co., Ltd.11,007,125华业（厦门）酒店有限公司Hua Ye Xiamen Hotel Limited10,079,701庆隆（上海）投资管理有限公司Kheng Leong (Shanghai) Investment 
Management Co., Ltd.7,077,6440.035,846,9430.039,495,0320.026,865,431厦门虎标医药有限公司Xiamen Tiger Medicals Co., Ltd.6,411,8110.022,476,826益诺丰企业管理咨询 ( 北京 ) 有限公司InnoVen Enterprise Management 
Consulting (Beijing) Co., Ltd.5,290,3130.011,966,7701.360.930.610.340.100.030.020.030.020.010.010.28--0.063.80存入及拆入款项Due to and placements from banks 
and other financial institutions31-12-201931-12-2018虎豹企业有限公司Haw Par Corporation Limited4,928,8560.01102,797,136大华银行有限公司United Overseas Bank Limited13,352,032,92595.7115,496,227,923大华银行（泰国）有限公司United Overseas Bank (Thai) Public 
Company Limited1,127,9720.01252,125合计Total13,353,160,89795.7215,496,480,04889.39-89.39上海锦骏置业有限公司Shanghai Jin Jun Realty Co., Ltd.关键管理人员合计Key Management Personnel24,868,3120.0624,133,656Total1,351,593,2193.43 1,407,511,234余额 
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)余额 
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)天津华业希望房地产开发有限公司Tianjin UOL Xiwang Real Estate Co., 
Ltd.105,7751,750--672,5601,504应收款项 - 其他应收款 Receivables- other receivables31-12-201931-12-2018余额 
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)余额 
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)大华银行有限公司United Overseas Bank Limited上海华新置业有限公司 UOB Property China Co., Ltd.大华资产管理有限公司 UOB Asset Management Ltd.合计Total21,220,91912,892,048375,41634,488,3836.443.910.1199,928,03712,892,0481,974,15410.46114,794,23938.564.970.7644.29应付款项 - 其他负债 Payables - other liabilities31-12-201931-12-2018余额 
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)余额 
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)大华银行有限公司United Overseas Bank Limited59,909,32417.86120,513,92217.26172173交易性金融资产Financial assets held-for-trading31-12-201931-12-2018利息支出Interest expense20192018大华银行有限公司United Overseas Bank Limited--138,237,6369.39余额 
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)余额 
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)交易性金融负债Financial liabilities held-for-trading31-12-201931-12-2018余额 
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)余额 
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)大华银行有限公司United Overseas Bank Limited3,183,176,624100.002,720,495,215100.00利息收入Interest income20192018金额 
Amount占同类交易金额比例
Contribution (%)金额 
Amount占同类交易金额比例
Contribution (%)大华银行有限公司United Overseas Bank Limited御道津旅（天津）发展有
限公司UIC JinTravel (Tianjin) Co., Ltd.上海锦骏置业有限公司 Shanghai Jin Jun Realty Co., Ltd.合计Total11,406,7073,452,1243,169,16518,027,9960.480.150.130.7611,018,2882,915,4871,394,90515,328,6800.490.130.060.68174金额 
Amount占同类交易金额比例
Contribution (%)金额 
Amount占同类交易金额比例
Contribution (%)大华银行有限公司United Overseas Bank Limited413,649,14426.90413,633,827上海锦鹏置业有限公司Shanghai Jin Peng Realty Co., Ltd.10,151,5970.6625,097,788上海华新置业有限公司UOB Property China Co., Ltd.7,396,2850.485,974,665优欧弼投资管理（上海）有限公司UOB Venture Management 
(Shanghai) Co., Ltd.3,613,5160.234,131,518虎豹企业有限公司Haw Par Corporation Limited1,667,7940.111,445,672新嘉置地（成都）发展有限公司泛太平洋（上海）酒店管理
有限公司Singland (Chengdu) Development 
Co., Ltd.
Pan Pacific (Shanghai) Hotel 
Management Co., Ltd.华业（厦门）酒店有限公司Hua Ye Xiamen Hotel Limited1,591,986224,551142,621溢诺丰融资租赁有限公司InnoVen Financial Leasing Co., Ltd.113,364御道津旅（天津）发展有限公司 UIC Jin Travel (Tianjin) Co., Ltd.110,234庆隆（上海）投资管理有限公司Kheng Leong (Shanghai) 
Investment Management Co., Ltd.益诺丰企业管理咨询 ( 北京 )
有限公司InnoVen Enterprise Management 
Consulting (Beijing) Co., Ltd.厦门虎标医药有限公司Xiamen Tiger Medicals Co., Ltd.大华银行（泰国）有限公司天津华业希望房地产开发有限公司United Overseas Bank (Thai) 
Public Company Limited
Tianjin UOL Xiwang Real Estate 
Co., Ltd.上海锦骏置业有限公司Shanghai Jin Jun Realty Co., Ltd.99,37935,94716,5768,2589675780.100.010.010.010.010.01-----1,317,12025,80244,43330,74199,33885,9324,0869,7021,3782,575226关键管理人员Key Management Personnel806,9040.05333,457合计Total439,629,70128.58452,238,26032.861.990.470.330.110.10---0.010.01-----0.0335.91175手续费及佣金收入Fee and commission income20192018业务及管理费General and administrative expenses20192018金额 
Amount占同类交易金额比例
Contribution (%)金额 
Amount占同类交易金额比例
Contribution (%)金额 
Amount占同类交易金额比例
Contribution (%)金额 
Amount占同类交易金额比例
Contribution (%)大华银行有限公司United Overseas Bank Limited大华资产管理有限公司UOB Asset Management Ltd.厦门虎标医药有限公司Xiamen Tiger Medicals Co., Ltd.溢诺丰融资租赁有限公司InnoVen Financial Leasing Co., Ltd.大华银行 ( 马来西亚 ) 有限公司United Overseas Bank (Malaysia) Bhd.上海锦骏置业有限公司Shanghai Jin Jun Realty Co., Ltd.大华银行（泰国）有限公司United Overseas Bank (Thai) Public 
Company Limited天津华业希望房地产开发有限公司 Tianjin UOL Xiwang Real Estate Co., Ltd.华业（厦门）酒店有限公司Hua Ye Xiamen Hotel Limited上海华新置业有限公司UOB Property China Co., Ltd.虎豹企业有限公司Haw Par Corporation Limited泛太平洋（上海）酒店管理有限公司Pan Pacific (Shanghai) Hotel Management 
Co., Ltd.御道津旅（天津）发展有限公司UIC JinTravel (Tianjin) Co., Ltd.益诺丰企业管理咨询 ( 北京 ) 有限公司优欧弼投资管理（上海）有限公司InnoVen Enterprise Management 
Consulting (Beijing) Co., Ltd.
UOB Venture Management (Shanghai)
Co., Ltd.新嘉置地（成都）发展有限公司Singland (Chengdu) Development Co., Ltd.15,038,7524,599,295452,597180,648122,56275,53114,3123,2301,5841,8181,303936798779368806.28 21,768,3481.926,970,7270.19250,5470.080.050.0390,114-75,4720.0110,529---------2,1633,9943,331-1,226-1,015512290合计Total20,494,5938.56 29,178,268手续费及佣金支出Fee and commission expense201911.543.690.130.05-0.040.01---------15.462018金额 
Amount占同类交易金额比例
Contribution (%)金额 
Amount占同类交易金额比例
Contribution (%)大华银行有限公司United Overseas Bank Limited1,022,8341.517,249,275大华银行 ( 泰国 ) 有限公司United Overseas Bank (Thai) Public 
Company Limited大华银行 ( 马来西亚 ) 有限公司 United Overseas Bank (Malaysia) Bhd.大华银行（印度尼西亚）有限公司 PT Bank UOB Indonisia2,11251------149,260合计Total1,024,9971.517,398,535投资收益Investment Income201912.42--0.2612.682018信息技术支持费IT support- 大华银行有限公司-United Overseas Bank Limited47,375,2004.4337,411,868房屋租金及服务费Rental and service fee- 上海华新置业有限公司-UOB Property China Co., Ltd.47,232,480- 大华银行有限公司-United Overseas Bank Limited- 华业（厦门）酒店有限公司 -Hua Ye Xiamen Hotel Limited合计Total936,841296,13395,840,6544.420.090.038.9739,931,714893,303296,13378,533,018开发软件Software development20193.754.010.090.037.882018大华银行有限公司United Overseas Bank Limited7,306,38746.8118,802,58276.18金额 
Amount占同类交易金额比例
Contribution (%)金额 
Amount占同类交易金额比例
Contribution (%)受托业务Fiduciary activities31-12-201931-12-2018委托资金 
Entrusted deposits占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)委托资金 
Entrusted deposits占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)厦门虎标医药有限公司 Xiamen Tiger Medicals Co., Ltd.--11,040,0000.44不可撤销的贷款承诺Irrevocable loan commitments31-12-201931-12-2018余额 
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)余额 
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)上海锦骏置业有限公司 Shanghai Jin Jun Realty Co., Ltd.169,931,207御道津旅（天津）发展
有限公司UIC JinTravel (Tianjin) Co., Ltd.-合计Total169,931,2076.89-6.89242,581,34228,000,000270,581,3428.110.949.05衍生金融工具合约Derivatives31-12-201931-12-2018余额 
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)余额 
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)大华银行有限公司United Overseas Bank Limited28,971,782,8384.7114,550,745,4952.24保函Letter of guarantee31-12-201931-12-2018大华银行有限公司United Overseas Bank Limited16,282,48131.9432,754,20623.81大华银行有限公司United Overseas Bank Limited50,222,1174.76269,619,11040.29金额 
Amount占同类交易金额比例
Contribution (%)金额 
Amount占同类交易金额比例
Contribution (%)余额 
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)余额 
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)176177本公司与上述关联方进行的交易根据正常的商业交易条件进行，以
一般交易价格为定价基础，并按正常业务程序进行。除上述交易外，本公司支付给关键管理人员薪金福利如下：The Bank's transactions with the above-mentioned related 
parties are conducted in accordance with normal commercial 
transaction conditions, based on general transaction prices, 
and in accordance with normal business procedures.Key  management  personnel’s  salaries  and  benefits  are  as 
follows:雇员薪金及其他短期福利 Employee salaries and other short-term incentives201990,497,505201882,922,707与本公司年金计划的交易情况如下：本公司与本年设立的企业年金基金除正常的供款业务外，本年未发
生其他关联交易。Transactions  between  the  Bank  and  the  annuity  are  as 
follows:No  transactions  other  than  normal  contribution  to  the 
annuity were conducted between the Bank and the annuity 
established by the Bank.十二、租赁1. 作为承租人12. Lease(1) As lessee已承诺但尚未开始的租赁Committed but not commenced leases.本公司本年已承诺但尚未开始的租赁预计未来年度现金流出的情况
如下：The expected cash outflow in future years of committed but 
not commenced leases as below:1 年以内（含 1 年）Within 1 year (include 1 year)1 年至 2 年（含 2 年）1-2 years (include 2 years)2 年至 3 年（含 3 年）2-3 years (include 3 years)201941,413,84541,413,84541,413,845124,241,535租赁费用补充信息
本公司对短期租赁和低价值资产租赁进行简化处理，未确认使用权
资产和租赁负债，短期租赁、低价值资产当期计入费用的情况如下：Additional information on lease expense
The  bank  uses  the  simplified  approach  to  account  for  a 
short-term lease and a lease of low-value assets which are 
not recognised as the right-of-use assets and lease liabilities. 
Profit or loss recognises on short-term leases and leases of 
low-value assets as below:本公司承租的租赁资产包括经营过程中使用的房屋及建筑物和运输
工具，房屋及建筑物的租赁期通常为 2-5 年，运输工具的租赁期通
常为 3-4 年。少数租赁合同包含续租选择权、终止选择权。The  leased  assets  of  the  Bank  include  the  buildings  and 
vehicles  used  during  daily  operation.  The  lease  term  for 
buildings is usually 2-5 years, and the lease term for vehicles 
is usually 3-4 years. Few lease contracts have an option to 
extend the lease or an option to terminate the lease.短期租赁费用Expenses for short-term lease低价值租赁费用（短期
租赁除外）Expenses for lease of low-value assets
(short-term lease  not included)201948,992,602-48,992,602与租赁相关的现金流出Cash outflow related to lease未纳入租赁负债计量的未来潜在现金流出
本公司未纳入租赁负债计量的未来潜在现金流出主要来源于可变租
赁付款额，租赁合同中的续租选择权与终止选择权，租赁担保余值，
已承诺但尚未开始的租赁等风险敞口。续租选择权与终止租赁选择权2019 年，本公司无因续租选择权或终止选择权的评估结果或实际行
使情况发生变化而导致租赁期变化。201935,813,445Potential cash outflow that not accounts for lease liabilities
Potential cash outflow that not accounts for lease liabilities 
mainly  arises  from  risk  exposures  such  as  variable  lease 
payable, option to extend the lease, option to terminate 
the lease, guaranteed residual value, and committed but not 
commenced leases.Option to extend the lease, option to terminate the leaseThere is no change on lease terms arose from the change 
on the assessment of option to extend the lease, option to 
terminate the lease or actual option exercise situation in 
2019.其他租赁信息
使用权资产，参见附注六、10；租赁负债的利息费用，参见附注六、
32；对短期租赁和低价值资产租赁的简化处理，参见附注四、15；
租赁负债，参见附注四、15 和附注四、26 和附注六、24。Additional information on lease
Right-of-use assets refers to note 6.10; Interest expense for 
lease liabilities refers to note 6.32; simplified approach to 
account  for  a  short-term  lease  and  a  lease  of  low-value 
assets refers to note 4.15; lease liabilities refers to note 4.15, 
note 4.26 and note 6.24.178179十三、资产负债表日后事项13. Post balance sheet events自新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情（以下简称“新冠疫情”）2020
年 1 月在全国爆发以来，对新冠疫情的防控工作正在全国范围内持
续进行。由于新冠疫情的爆发对商业和经济活动造成了影响，因此，
本公司各类业务的开展均可能受到不同程度的影响，本公司将密切
关注新冠疫情的发展情况并积极应对其对本公司财务状况、经营成
果等方面的影响。十四、比较数据若干比较数据乃经过重新编排，以符合本年度之列报要求。Due  to  the  outbreak  of  pneumonia  caused  by  the  new 
coronavirus (hereinafter referred to as the COVID-19 pandemic) 
in January 2020, measures of prevention and control of the 
COVID-19 pandemic have been carried out throughout the 
country ever since. Since the COVID-19 pandemic has affected 
commercial and economic activities, the development of 
various types of business of the Bank may be affected to varying 
degrees. The Bank will be closely monitoring the development 
of the COVID-19 pandemic and actively respond to its impact 
on the financial status, operating results and other relevant 
aspects of the Bank.十五、财务报表之批准14. Comparative amounts本财务报表业经本公司董事会于 2020 年 4 月 3 日决议批准。Certain comparative amounts have been adjusted to conform 
with the current year’s presentation.15. Approval of the financial statementsThe  financial  statements  were  approved  for  issue  by  the 
Board of Directors on 3 April 2020.180