《我以为，我们能像岩石一样坚固》卓于沾
混合媒体120 x 180 厘米今年年度报告封面的设计灵感源自卓于沾先生的画作《我以为，我们能像岩石一样坚固》。卓
先生通过艺术创作对一张家庭旧照片重新诠释，展现了家庭纽带的坚固与凝聚力。作品在 2017
年“大华银行年度绘画大赛（马来西亚）”荣获“年度最佳画作奖”。 卓先生也获选参加 2018
年大华银行—日本福冈亚洲美术馆驻馆创作计划。画家以岩石刻画出亲人并肩而立的形象，象征着培养相互信任、历久弥坚的深厚关系的重要意
义；在浮云流动、落叶纷飞和波涛起伏中顽强屹立的岩石，凸显出历经风雨、始终如一所具有
的坚实基础和坚毅不拔的精神。这些品质也深植于大华银行始终信守的经营理念中。为利益相关方及我们营运所在的社区创造可持续价值也体现在大华银行对艺术的大力支持。“大
华银行年度绘画大赛”至 2017 年已举办了 36 届，目前是我们在四个东南亚国家促进视觉艺术
发展的旗舰项目。I Thought, We Can Stay Strong Like Stonesby Chok Yue ZanMixed media
120 x 180 cmMr Chok Yue Zan’s I Thought, We Can Stay Strong Like Stones is the design inspiration for this 
Annual Report. Mr Chok reinterprets his family’s portrait to show the depth, strength and unity 
of familial ties. It received the 2017 UOB Painting of the Year (Malaysia) award. He is also the 
recipient of the 2018 UOB-Fukuoka Asian Art Museum residency programme.The rocks carved in the shape of the people closest to the artist symbolise the importance of 
nurturing trusted and deep relationships that last. Standing resilient amid swaying foliage, cloudy 
skies and rolling waters, the rocks reinforce the need for a firm foundation and fortitude to 
weather change and volatility. All these reflect UOB’s distinctive approach to banking.Creating sustainable value for our stakeholders and the communities in which we operate is also 
expressed through UOB’s support of art. The UOB Painting of the Year Competition, in its 36   year 
in 2017, is the Bank’s flagship art programme held across four Southeast Asian countries.th关于大华银行（中国）
About United Overseas Bank (China)大华银行（中国）有限公司（大华银行（中国））是亚洲银行业翘楚——
大华银行有限公司（大华银行）的在华全资子公司，拥有中国本地法人
银行资格。大华银行（中国）于 2007 年 12 月 18 日注册成立，总部设在
上海。自 1984 年，大华银行在北京开设了第一间办事处以来，大华银行（中国）
已在中国的主要城市拥有十余家分支机构。我们不断加强在各方面的实力。2006 年，大华银行成为上海第一家
获批为客户处理资本账目的东南亚银行。2008 年，大华银行（中国）
获得了人民币零售业务牌照；2011 年获得了上海黄金交易所授予的
在华黄金交易会员资格；2012 年 7 月，大华银行（中国）获得合格
境内机构投资者（QDII）资格，12 月，又获得了银行间黄金询价资格，
成为首批获得此项资格的四家外资银行之一。2013 年，大华银行（中国）成为第一批在中国获得本地基金代销执照
的外资银行之一。2014 年，大华银行（中国）设立上海自贸试验区支
行，并成为首批获得银行间外汇市场人民币对新元直接做市商资格
及银行间黄金询价交易尝试做市商资质的外资银行。2015 年，大华
银行（中国）获得了黄金进出口的行政许可。这些都进一步扩展了
大华银行在中国的业务。2015 年大华银行集团向大华银行（中国）增加资本金 25 亿元人民币，
总注册资本金达到 55 亿元人民币。目前，大华银行（中国）的综合财务实力获惠誉 A+ 及展望稳定评级，
以及中诚信 AAA 及展望稳定的评级。在大力发展业务的同时，大华银行（中国）注重员工发展和社会公益。
从 2012 年起，我行定期参与集团区域公益项目“爱心公益跑 / 行”，
并将筹集的善款捐赠给本地多家慈善机构，用于支持相关艺术、儿
童和教育的项目。欲了解更多信息，请登陆大华银行（中国）的官方网站： 
www.UOBChina.com.cnUnited  Overseas  Bank  (China)  Limited  (UOB  (China))  is  a 
wholly-owned subsidiary of United Overseas Bank Limited 
(UOB), a leading bank in Asia. UOB (China) is headquartered 
in Shanghai and was incorporated in the People’s Republic of 
China on 18 December 2007.From our first representative office in Beijing in 1984, we have 
grown our network to 17 branches in major Chinese cities by 
the end of 2017.We  have  also  been  building  on  our  strengths.  In  2006, 
UOB was the first bank from Southeast Asia authorised to 
settle  capital  accounts  in  Shanghai.  We  received  a  retail 
RMB  licence  and  Shanghai  Gold  Exchange  (SGE)  trading 
membership in 2008 and 2011 respectively. In 2012, we were 
awarded a Qualified Domestic Institutional Investors licence, 
and were one of four foreign banks to participate in bullion 
trading on the SGE interbank platform.UOB  (China)  is  one  of  the  first  foreign  banks  to  obtain  a 
local mutual fund licence in China, in 2013. The following 
year, we established a sub-branch in the Shanghai Free Trade 
Zone, and obtained a trial market maker licence for inter-
bank gold bilateral transactions and a market maker licence 
for direct trading between RMB and the Singapore dollar in 
the interbank foreign exchange market. We also obtained the 
gold import and export licence in 2015. These achievements 
have enabled us to widen our product and service offering to 
our customers operating in China.In 2015, UOB Group increased the registered capital of UOB 
(China) by RMB2.5 billion to RMB5.5 billion.UOB (China) is rated ‘A+’ with stable outlook by Fitch Ratings 
and AAA by China Chengxin International Credit Rating with 
a stable outlook.As we continue to grow our business, we remain committed 
to sharing our successes with the community. Since 2012, we 
have held the annual UOB Heatbeat Run/Walk to raise funds 
to support various art, children and education initiatives in 
China.For more information about UOB (China), please visit 
www.UOBChina.com.cn.2|大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告母行简介
About United Overseas Bank Limited关于我们大华银行有限公司（大华银行）是亚洲主要银行，拥有超过 500 间
分行及办事处的环球业务网，分布在亚太、欧洲与北美的 19 个国家
和地区。在亚洲，大华银行通过新加坡总行和在中国、印度尼西亚、
马来西亚及泰国的附属银行以及各地分行和办事处，开展广泛的金
融业务。1935 年，全球还处于经济大萧条后的不确定期，大华银行开业为新
加坡的商业社群提供银行服务。从此大华银行通过自身发展和一系列的战略收购行动不断壮大。如
今大华银行获评为世界顶尖银行之一：穆迪给予“Aa1”评级，标准
普尔和惠誉分别给予“AA-”评级。在过去的超过 80 年里，一代代大华银行职员秉承开拓进取的精神，
以创造长远价值为目标，勇于担当，对所有利益相关方始终诚挚如
一，信守相伴。在大华银行，我们矢志做严谨负责的金融服务机构，致力为营运所
在的社区创造改变生活的正能量。正如我们全力以赴协助客户明智
管理他们的财务和取得业务成长，大华银行也坚定不移地支持社会
发展，并将推动艺术、帮助儿童成长及促进教育作为重点。经营范围大华银行通过集团零售银行业务、集团机构银行服务及环球金融三
个核心业务部门，在全球提供全面的金融服务：个人财务服务、私
人银行服务、业务银行服务、商业与企业银行服务、交易银行服务、
投资银行服务、企业融资、资本市场业务、外汇资金服务、经纪及
清算服务。通过各个附属公司，我们也提供资产管理、创业资金管
理及保险服务。Who We Are
United Overseas Bank Limited (UOB) is a leading bank in Asia 
with a global network of more than 500 branches and offices 
in  19  countries  and  territories  in  Asia  Pacific,  Europe  and 
North America. In Asia, we operate through our head office 
in Singapore and banking subsidiaries in China, Indonesia, 
Malaysia and Thailand, as well as branches and offices across 
the region.In  1935,  amid  the  economic  uncertainties  following  the 
Great Depression, UOB opened its doors to provide banking 
services for the merchant community in Singapore.Since then, UOB has grown organically and through a series 
of  strategic  acquisitions.  Today,  UOB  is  rated  among  the 
world’s top banks: ‘Aa1’ by Moody’s and ‘AA-’ by Standard & 
Poor’s and Fitch Ratings.Over  more  than  eight  decades,  generations  of  UOB 
employees have carried through the entrepreneurial spirit, 
the focus on long-term value creation and an unwavering 
commitment to doing what is right for our stakeholders.At UOB, we believe in being a responsible financial services 
provider and we are committed to making a difference in the 
communities in which we operate. Just as we are dedicated 
to helping our customers manage their finances wisely and 
grow their businesses, we are steadfast in our support of 
social development, particularly in the areas of art, children 
and education.What We Do
UOB  provides  a  wide  range  of  financial  services  globally 
through our three core business segments - Group Retail, 
Group Wholesale Banking and Global Markets. Our offering 
includes personal financial services, private banking, business 
banking,  commercial  and  corporate  banking,  transaction 
banking,  investment  banking,  corporate  finance,  capital 
market activities, treasury services, brokerage and clearing 
services.  Through  our  subsidiaries,  we  also  provide  asset 
management,  venture  capital  management  and  insurance 
services.UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|3我们的营运所在
Where We Operate>500 branches分行
及办事处and offices亚太、欧洲及北美
in Asia Pacific, Europe 
and North America加拿大 Canada 3美国 USA 3英国 United Kingdom 1法国 France 1缅甸 Myanmar 2泰国 Thailand 154越南 Vietnam 1
中国 China 22香港 Hong Kong 3台湾 Taiwan 3韩国 South Korea 2日本 Japan 2菲律宾 Philippines 1印度 India 2马来西亚 Malaysia 48
新加坡 Singapore 69
印度尼西亚 Indonesia 180文莱 Brunei 2澳大利亚 Australia 44|大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告主要财务信息
Financial Highlights20172016Increase
(Decrease)经营成果Operating result人民币千元 RMB’000营业收入合计Total operating income营业费用Total operating expenses资产减值损失Impairment charges税前利润资产负债资产总计财务指标Profit before taxBalance sheetTotal assetsFinancial indicators净资产利润率Return on equity资产利润率成本收入比Return on average total assetsExpenses/income ratio手续费及佣金净收入比总收入Net fee and commission income/total operating 
income存贷比（人民币）Loan-to-Deposit ratio (RMB)流动性覆盖率Liquidity coverage ratio杠杆率不良贷款率拨备覆盖率Leverage ratioNon-performing loan ratioNon-performing loan coverage资本充足率指标Capital adequacy ratio核心一级资本充足率Core Tier 1 CAR一级资本充足率Tier 1 CAR资本充足率Total CAR1,172,439884,752134,178143,700943,404844,66549,70456,817人民币千元 RMB’00063,499,05652,386,412%2.00.274.59.876.4243.98.50.8258.816.516.517.3%0.70.186.314.385.7165.810.31.3163.018.218.218.7%24.34.7170.0152.9%21.2%1.30.1(11.8)(4.5)(9.3)78.1(1.8)(0.5)95.8(1.7)(1.7)(1.4)UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|5董事长致辞
Chairman’s Statement今年年度报告的封面画作描绘了我们巩固和维系长久关系所需的坚
实基础。画作主题也与大华银行（中国）的发展观不谋而合。因为
我们相信，有力的商业模式是撑起我行发展的基石，在此基础上我
行不断为各利益相关方创造可持续价值。我行不断建立并深化与客
户、员工和社区之间的关系，关注并支持他们的长期发展。尽管历
经挑战、经济周期和市场变化的考验，我们不断权衡业务增长和稳
定经营，继续取得丰硕成果。2017 年财务业绩
2017 年，得益于净利息收入和投资收益的双位数增长，我行营业收
入同比增长了 24.3% 至人民币 11.7 亿元。
 
由于生息资产规模增加以及银行间市场利率的持续上行导致净息差
有所上升，我行净利息收入同比增长 24.5%，至人民币 8.1 亿元。
 
受益于黄金以及外汇衍生产品的良好表现，投资收益较去年同比增
长 40.8% 至人民币 2.5 亿元。
 
由于我行在业务拓展及人力资源方面加大了投入，同时由于 2017
年贷款规模增长使得拨备计提有所增加，从而导致营业支出上升
13.9%。2017 年税后净利润为人民币 1.4 亿元，较 2016 年同比增长
214.4%。
 
我行的资产质量保持稳定，不良贷款率从上年末的 1.3% 下降至 2017
年末的 0.8%；拨备覆盖率从上年末的 163.0% 上升至 258.8%。我们
密切监控资产组合，并对我行的资产质量和拨备充足性有着充分的
信心。6|大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告The  painting  on  this  year’s  Annual  Report  cover  depicts 
solid  foundations  that  are  needed  to  secure  and  sustain 
relationships over time. Its theme resonates strongly with 
UOB (China) as we believe the fundamental strengths of our 
business  model  form  the  bedrock  on  which  we  continue 
to create sustainable value for our stakeholders. We build 
and  deepen  relationships  by  focusing  on  and  supporting 
the long-term interests of our customers, colleagues and 
the  community.  Our  disciplined  approach  in  balancing 
growth with stability continues to bear fruit as we weather 
challenges, cycles and change.2017 Financial Performance
In  2017,  we  achieved  an  operating  income  of  RMB1,172.4 
million, an increase of 24.3 per cent from last year, driven by 
double-digit growth in net interest income and investment 
income.Our net interest income rose 24.5 per cent from a year ago to 
RMB805.8 million, attributed to higher interest bearing assets 
and higher yields from interbank placements and securities in 
a rising interest rate environment.Investment  income  grew  40.8  per  cent  year  on  year  to 
RMB251.2 million as a result of higher realised gain from gold 
trading and foreign exchange derivatives.Total  operating  expenses  went  up  by  13.9  per  cent  as  we 
continued  to  invest  in  our  people  and  strengthening  our 
capabilities,  as  well  as  from  an  increase  in  impairment 
provision in line with higher loan growth. We posted a net 
profit after tax of RMB136.0 million, a rise of 214.4 per cent 
from 2016.Our asset quality remained stable. The non-performing loans 
(NPL) ratio declined to 0.8 per cent from 1.3 per cent a year 
ago and our NPL coverage ratio rose from 163.0 per cent to 
258.8 per cent in the same period. We continue to monitor 
our portfolio vigilantly and are confident of the resilience of 
our asset quality and the adequacy of our provisions.2017 年贷款规模上升 13.6% 至人民币 271.4 亿元，同时我行资金来源
进一步夯实，存款增长了 20.2% 至人民币 302.7 亿元。我行保持了稳
健的流动性水平，流动性覆盖率达到 243.9%，远远超过 100% 的最
低监管要求。
 
我行的资本保持在较高水平。截止 2017 年 12 月 31 日，我行的核心
一级资本充足率和总资本充足率分别为 16.5% 和 17.3%，远高于最低
监管要求。
 
目前，大华银行（中国）的综合财务实力获惠誉 A+ 及展望稳定评级，
以及中诚信 AAA 及展望稳定的评级。深谋远略，锐意进取正如 2017 年的业绩所反映的，我行针对几大战略重点领域，多点发
力；同时继续保持投资，以确保业务的持续增长。我们重点关注完善在中国的业务布局；加强自身业务能力，积极帮
助企业及个人客户把握国内外的金融机遇；运用新科技来提升业绩
表现和客户体验，并帮助员工充分发挥自身潜能，保持与时俱进。完善业务布局多年来，大华银行适时投资扩张，确保了集团在亚洲的竞争优势。
作为一家亚洲领先银行，大华银行在东南亚所拥有强大业务网络，
也确保我们可以有效开启商业、贸易和投资等领域所蕴藏的丰富商
机。另一方面，当客户个人财富和企业业务不断增长，大华银行有
能力服务于他们的各类金融需求，带动业务增长，巩固我们的市场
地位。在中国，我行持续加大投入以更好地支持客户业务发展，帮助他们
抓住中国“一带一路”倡议和“粤港澳大湾区”发展计划所带来的
各项机遇。2017 年 11 月，大华银行（中国）昆明分行正式开业。云
南作为“一带一路”的战略支点之一，与香港和东南亚国家间的投
资和经济交互日益增强。昆明分行致力为西南地区“走出去”企业
提供有针对性的在岸和离岸金融解决方案，并连同我们的成都与重
庆分行，进一步加强我行对西部经济圈的辐射。Our loans grew 13.6 per cent to RMB27.1 billion while our 
deposits  increased  20.2  per  cent  to  RMB30.3  billion  as 
we continued to  improve our funding base. Our liquidity 
position  remained  healthy  with  our  liquidity  coverage 
ratio standing at 243.9 per cent, well above the regulatory 
minimum requirement of 100 per cent.Our capital position is robust with the Common Equity Tier 
1 and Total Capital Adequacy Ratios at 16.5 per cent and 17.3 
per cent respectively as at 31 December 2017, also well above 
the regulatory minimum requirements.We  were  rated  A+  by  Fitch  Ratings  and  AAA  by  China 
Chengxin International Credit Rating with a stable outlook.Enterprising with a Far-Sighted Approach
As our 2017 results reflect, we forged ahead on many fronts 
to achieve our strategic priorities, continuing to invest in the 
present to help ensure business growth well into the future.We  focused  on  building  our  China  franchise;  enhancing 
our capabilities as we connect individuals and businesses 
to financial opportunities at home and abroad; harnessing 
technology to strengthen performance and to improve the 
customer experience, and developing our people to their full 
potential for them to stay ahead in this fast changing world.Building on Our China Franchise
UOB’s well-timed investments over many years have ensured 
the  Group’s  competitive  advantage  in  the  region.  As  a 
leading bank in Asia with a strong franchise and integrated 
network across Southeast Asia, UOB is best placed to seize 
the immense opportunities being created for business, trade 
and investment. Our position will be strengthened by the 
Group’s ability to continue to tap the region’s growth drivers 
in serving the needs of our customers as they increase their 
wealth and expand their businesses.In  China,  we  are  investing  to  ensure  we  can  support  our 
clients  as  they  seize  opportunities  arising  from  China’s 
Belt  and  Road  Initiative  (BRI)  and  the  Greater  Bay  Area 
(GBA) scheme. For example, in November 2017 we opened 
a branch in Kunming, Yunnan - a strategic node of the BRI 
which  has  recorded  strong  trade  and  investment  flows 
between Hong Kong and Southeast Asian countries. Our new 
Kunming branch is well-positioned to help Southwest China’s 
businesses with their cross-border expansion plans through 
onshore and offshore solutions. It also complements our 
operations in West China’s Chengdu and Chongqing.UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|7董事长致辞
Chairman’s Statement积极帮助客户把握亚洲发展机遇我们继续提供一站式投资服务并利用我们的合作伙伴关系生态系统，
帮助客户把握跨境商机。自 2011 年起，大华银行设立了外国直接投
资（FDI）咨询部，为意欲进军海外市场或在海外拓展业务的企业提
供服务。该部在亚洲各地拥有专业团队，能够带领企业发现并抓住
亚洲市场的各类发展机遇，并切实帮助他们解决在当地运营所面临
的各种复杂问题。大华银行也是东南亚首家设立 FDI 咨询部的银行。我行也着力于在中国拓展 FDI 合作伙伴关系。2017 年 6 月，大华银
行与中国的国家级业协会——中国国际商会签署了合作备忘录。
2017 年 11 月和 12 月，大华银行（中国）还与中国国际商会云南商会
和中国国际贸易促进委员会江苏分会分别签署了合作备忘录。这些
战略合作连同集团与其他国家行业协会和政府组织所建立的合作，
都是我们合作伙伴生态系统的一部分，共同助力更多优秀企业进军
海外市场。2017 年 3 月，中国提出了“粤港澳大湾区”发展计划。这一计划的
提出将有力进一步推动湾区内的经济建设和发展。据专家预计，“粤
港澳大湾区”将成为 2030 年成为 GDP 总量第一湾区。我们两岸三
地的团队通力合作，共同探索合适的金融解决方案，帮助更多客户
抓住这一历史发展机遇，实现发展目标。强化和拓展业务能力我们重点关注投资贸易机会丰富的几个行业领域。通过数据分析、
风险分析和控制，我们的行业专业团队可以深入地了解客户的价值
链，全面地满足客户的需求。而这些行业理解和专业服务也加深了
客户对我们的信任与关系。在中国，为了更好地支持企业客户“走出去”，我们推出人民币利
率互换 + 外汇远期锁汇的套期保值方案，帮助他们固定融资成本，
管理外汇风险。Connecting Clients to Regional Opportunities
We continued to help our clients tap regional cross-border 
flows by connecting them seamlessly across the region and 
helping them benefit from the ecosystem of partnerships we 
have been building. UOB was the first bank in Southeast Asia 
to set up dedicated Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) Advisory 
Units across Asia from 2011 to help companies work through 
the complexities of operating locally and to bridge them to 
opportunities across the region as they expand overseas and 
enter new markets.As part of expanding our FDI ecosystem partners, in June 
2017 UOB signed another Memorandum of Understanding 
(MOU), this time, with the Chinese Chamber of International 
Commerce, China’s national business association. In November 
and  December  2017,  UOB  (China)  also  signed  two  MOUs 
with the Yunnan Chamber of International Commerce and 
the China Council for the Promotion of International Trade 
Jiangsu Sub-Council respectively. These add to the Group’s 
other  tie-ups  with  government  agencies  and  industry 
partners across the region to support our clients’ long-term 
regional growth ambitions.In March 2017, China’s Central Government announced plans 
to develop and to boost the economic growth of the GBA, 
with the aim to transform the GBA into the world's largest 
bay area in terms of gross domestic product by 2030. To help 
our clients capture potential GBA opportunities and realise 
their own growth ambitions, we harnessed the combined 
strengths of our Greater China offices to provide clients with 
the cross-border solutions they require.Deepening and Widening Our Capabilities
We are sharpening our focus on selected industry sectors 
where  we  see  the  strongest  opportunities  in  trade  and 
investment flows. Through a deeper understanding of our 
clients’ value chain, using data analytics, risk insights and 
controls, we are able to address their needs holistically. This 
in turn deepens the relationship with our clients.To enhance our support of our clients’ regional expansion 
plans,  we  launched  the  interest  rate  swap  and  foreign 
exchange forward product for our corporate clients to help 
them hedge against market risks and manage cross-border 
financing costs.8|大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告以客户为中心当今世界，现实与虚拟之间的界限日渐模糊。我们相信，只有整合
数字与传统渠道，才能令客户在使用每一个产品、每一项服务、在
每一次和我们接触时候，都能获得全面、统一且不断提升的体验。
这些体验不仅要无边界、直观和高效，还要安全且可靠，而且不论
在何种经济周期和地域市场都应始终如一。我们重视科技在确保上
述体验方面所发挥的关键作用。我们使用科技是为了更充分地满足客户的需求。我们创新并启用新
技术的宗旨是让银行业务更智能、简单、安全并更人性化。2017 年 1 月，大华银行（中国）作为首批外资银行正式上线微信支付。
我行客户可以更便捷地在手机端体验无现金消费的服务。2017 年 8
月，我们发布了大华直销银行 APP，这是国内首个由外资银行为中
国新兴富裕阶层打造的“优选金融 + 精致生活”综合直销银行。用
户可以在线开立直销银行二类账户，轻松理财。我们还利用技术帮助企业客户开辟新的收入来源、改进相关流程和
提高生产率，以实现业务的持续增长。为了帮助客户更有效地管理
银行交易，我行积极引入大华银行虚拟账户解决方案，并完善了企
业网上银行服务功能。关爱人才关注员工的职业和个人发展是我们的员工价值主张“UOB+you”的
组成部分。员工价值主张的推出是对我们企业诚信、进取、齐心和
担当几大价值观的重要诠释，也是我们吸引、聘用并保留合适的人
才和团队，并与其共同成长的承诺。2017 年，我们还启动了“大中华区领导力发展项目”建立一个横跨
两岸三地的人才培养平台。我们还提供了各式各样的员工培训项目，
用于强化员工技能并为其未来发展奠定基础。Keeping Our Customers at the Heart of All We Do
In a world where the lines between the physical and virtual 
are blurring, we believe in integrating digital and traditional 
channels to give our customers a truly rounded, consistent 
and  cumulative  experience  across  all  products,  services 
and  touchpoints.  We  ensure  the  experience  is  not  only 
borderless, intuitive and efficient through economic cycles 
and across markets, but that it is also safe and reliable for 
our customers. We recognise the important role technology 
plays in ensuring these.Meeting the needs of our customers is the main consideration 
in our use of technology. While we innovate and keep pace 
with advances in technology, we do so with a clear purpose 
of  making  banking  smarter,  simpler  and  safer,  and  always 
wrapped in the warmth of the human touch.In  January  2017,  UOB  (China)  was  one  of  the  first  foreign 
banks  to  offer  customers  the  convenience  of  digital 
payments  and  money  transfers  via  WeChat  payment  and 
remittance services. Our Direct Banking mobile application 
(app), which was launched in August 2017, was the first of 
its kind offered by a foreign bank in China. The mobile app 
offers wealth management solutions and lifestyle benefits 
for our emerging affluent customers. Customers can use the 
app to open a bank account, to manage their finances and to 
invest while on the go.For our corporate clients, we also used technology to help 
them  achieve  sustainable  business  growth  through  new 
revenue streams,  process improvements  and  productivity 
gains. For example, we launched our UOB Virtual Account 
Solution  and  enhanced  our  internet  banking  service  for 
businesses, UOB Business Internet Banking Plus, to help our 
clients manage their business transactions more effectively.Caring for Our Colleagues 
Caring  for  the  professional  and  personal  growth  of  our 
people is part of our employee value proposition, UOB+you. 
Building on UOB’s values of Honour, Enterprise, Unity and 
Commitment, UOB+you is the promise by which we attract, 
engage and retain the right individuals and teams to take us 
forward.In  2017,  we  also  launched  our  Greater  China  Leadership 
Academy,  which  serves  as  our  talent  incubator  across 
mainland China, Hong Kong and Taiwan. We also provided 
various  employee  training  programmes  to  deepen  our 
people’s skillsets and to prepare them for the future.UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|9董事长致辞
Chairman’s Statement协力打造美好社区我们的关怀和承诺也延展到了所在的社区。我们坚信，通过履行艺
术、儿童以及教育三大领域的企业社会责任，可以帮助所需的人点
亮心灵、启迪方向，从而更好地回馈并连接所在社区。在 2017 年，
我行通过慈善项目、合作伙伴和员工参与三大形式，全面支持艺术、
儿童和教育的发展。2017 年大华银行（中国）员工为各类公益活动贡献了约 3, 300 个小时，
其中的一项活动就是我行的年度标志性公益项目——大华银行“爱
心公益跑 / 行”。2017 年近 1, 600 名我行员工及其家人参与其中，
以多样形式募集爱心善款，用于支持云安、四川等西部偏远地区孩
子的教育和艺术发展。我行还与一财基金合作推出了“UOB 带我爱世界——小叮当的放映
室”公益项目。该项目为云南偏远山区的儿童提供了科学、文化和
金融知识等方面的一系列在线课程。2017 年公益创新峰会特授予大华银行（中国）企业社会责任奖，以
认可我行在企业社会责任领域所作出的不懈努力和贡献。我行继续拓宽与公众沟通的社交媒体渠道。2017 年，大华银行（中国）
微信公众号正式上线。该公众号全方位地介绍了我行的业务情况、
企业文化及公益活动，并第一时间提供市场分析与金融资讯，跨境
投资机会和研讨会以及线上互动活动等相关信息。2018 年展望2017 年全球经济历经最大规模的复苏，而且我们预计这一进程将会
持续。2017 年亚洲地区实现 2010 年以来首次增速回升，尽管亚洲正遭受了
美国贸易保护主义政策的影响，但在中国继续稳步增长的带领下，
经济仍将继续增长。United in Our Efforts to Strengthen Community Bonds
Our  care  and  commitment  for  people  extend  to  the 
communities in which we operate. We believe that through 
our  steadfast  support  of  art,  children  and  education  we 
can  help  open  minds  and  hearts  and  thereby  strengthen 
societal bonds. In 2017, we contributed holistically to these 
community causes through philanthropy, partnerships and 
employee  participation  in  the  areas  of  art,  children  and 
education.In China, our people volunteered more than 3,300 hours to 
support local community activities. One of these was our 
annual UOB Heartbeat Run/Walk, a fundraising event that 
saw  about  1,600  UOB  (China)  colleagues  and  their  family 
members across the country participating to help improve 
the  lives  of  children  with  financial  difficulties  or  special 
needs in Sichuan and Yunnan provinces.We  also  partnered  Yicai  Foundation  to  launch  the  “UOB 
Brings  the  World  to  Me”  programme.  The  programme 
provided  children  in  the  remote,  mountainous  areas  of 
Yunnan province with a range of online courses on topics 
such as science, culture and financial literacy.In  recognition  of  our  efforts,  UOB  (China)  received  a 
Corporate Social Responsibility Award at the Philanthropy 
Innovation Summit 2017.To engage our stakeholders further and to keep them abreast 
of our business developments, in 2017 we launched the UOB 
(China) corporate WeChat account. Through the account we 
share our business insight, cross-border investment outlook, 
events invitation and highlights, best practices and updates 
on  our  community  efforts,  as  well  as  stories  about  our 
colleagues.2018 年，中国将 GDP 增长目标设定在 6.5％。消费者富裕程度不断
提高，跨境贸易和投资的持续繁荣，令我们继续看好中国的增长前
景。自贸区、“一带一路”倡议和“粤港澳大湾区”等有利政策，
将继续推进中国与亚洲其他地区的互联互通，带来更多的跨境商机。2018 Outlook
In  2017,  we  saw  the  broadest  improvement  in  global 
economic recovery since 2010 and this upswing is expected 
to continue.Asia’s  growth  will  be  anchored  by  the  stability  in  China, 
which recorded its first growth pick-up in 2017 since 2010, 
even as the region grapples with the impact of protectionist 
trade policies from the US.With China setting its 2018 economic growth target at 6.5 
per cent, we remain optimistic about the country’s growth 
prospects, driven by rising consumer affluence and increasing 
cross-border business and investment flows. Domestic and 
regional initiatives, including the development of free trade 
zones and the BRI and GBA, will continue to underpin the 
expansion of business opportunities and connectivity across 
China and the rest of Asia.10|大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告以负责任的方式推动业务增长在大华银行（中国）正式开业十周年之际，我们将继续深耕中国市
场，并对未来发展充满信心。放眼未来，无论面对任何挑战，我们
都始终恪守我行基本原则，秉承诚信、进取、齐心、担当的价值观，
专注目标、一往无前。就像我们的年度报告封面上的磐石象征着我行的坚实业务基础，在
未来的发展中，我们也将脚踏实地、稳步向前。我行在中国稳固的
业务布局也为未来发展打下坚实基础。我们将继续保持良好的财务
状况并着眼于战略性投资，实现稳健经营和业务增长的双重目标。我们努力的最终目标就是巩固各方对我行的信任，且深知肩上责任
深重。 我们有责任培养我们专业人才，并指导他们践行我行价值观。
在业务的不断增长的同时，我们有责任与所在社区联动，并以实际
行动回馈社区。最后我要感谢大华银行（中国）董事会、管理层和所有同事们。感
谢大家始终为本行做出正确的选择，也感谢大家齐心协力共同在
2017 年创造了良好业绩。同时也非常感谢我行所有的客户和投资方
对大华银行（中国）长期以来所给予的信任和支持。黄一宗大华银行（中国）董事长
2018 年 3 月thCommitted to Sustaining Our Growth Responsibly
As we celebrate the 10   anniversary of the incorporation of 
UOB (China), we remain confident of, and committed to, our 
growth in China. Setting our sights on the future, we stay 
anchored to our founding principles, upholding our values of 
Honour, Enterprise, Unity and Commitment, as we persevere 
in pursuit of our goals, whatever the weather or terrain.Just as the rocks on the cover of our Annual Report represent 
the strong foundation on which our business is built, we can 
be sure-footed in our journey ahead. The groundwork we 
have laid for our China franchise sets a strong base for us 
to seize the rising business opportunities. We will continue 
to balance growth with stability, supported by our sound 
balance sheet and targeted investments for the future.Our ultimate purpose is to deepen the trust our stakeholders 
place in us. We know it is also our duty to develop professionals 
whose principled  actions are always  guided by our  time-
tested  values.  We  never  forget  that  as  we  continue  to 
build our business, we have a responsibility to strengthen 
community bonds and to give back to the communities in 
which we operate.To the UOB (China) Board, Management and colleagues, I 
thank you for your dedication to doing what is right for the 
Bank, and for the good results we achieved as a team in 2017. 
To our valued customers and investors, thank you for your 
continued confidence in, and support of UOB (China).Wee Ee Cheong
Chairman 
March 2018UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|11公司信息
Corporate Information法定名称
大华银行 ( 中国 ) 有限公司
法定代表人
黄一宗
注册地址
上海市浦东新区银城路 116 号、128 号大华银行大厦三层、五层 501 室（实际
四层）、十三层（实际十二层）、十五层（实际十三层）、十六层（实际十四层）、
十七层（实际十五层）、十八层（实际十六层）
邮政编码：200120
电话：(86) (21) 6061 8888
传真：(86) (21) 6886 0908
SWIFT：UOVBCNSH
网址：UOBChina.com.cn
公司成立日期
2007 年 12 月 18 日
登记机关
上海市工商行政管理局
企业法人统一社会信用代码
913100006694147236
注册资本
人民币 550,000 万元
股东 ( 发起人 )
大华银行有限公司
公司类型
有限责任公司 ( 外国法人独资 )
监事
黄祖耀
詹道存 ( 副监事 )
董事会
黄一宗 ( 董事长 )
符懋赞 ( 行长兼首席执行官 )
李振荣
叶杨诗明
刘二飞 
曾之杰
执行委员会
黄一宗 ( 主席 )
符懋赞 
李振荣
叶杨诗明
提名及薪酬委员会
曾之杰 ( 主席 ) 
黄一宗
李振荣
刘二飞
审计委员会
刘二飞 ( 自 2018 年 1 月 1 日起担任主席 )  
曾之杰
李振荣
叶杨诗明 
关联交易控制委员会
刘二飞 ( 自 2018 年 1 月 1 日起担任主席 )
曾之杰
李振荣 
董事会风险管理委员会
李振荣 ( 主席 ) 
曾之杰 
叶杨诗明
刘二飞 
审计师
安永华明会计师事务所（特殊普通合伙）上海分所12|大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告Registered Name
United Overseas Bank (China) Limited
Legal Representative
Wee Ee Cheong
Registered Office
Floor 3, Room 501 of Floor 5 (Actual Floor 4), Floor 13 (Actual Floor 12), Floor 15 
(Actual Floor 13), Floor 16 (Actual Floor 14), Floor 17 (Actual Floor 15) and Floor 18 
(Actual Floor 16), No. 116 and No. 128, Yin Cheng Road, Pudong New Area
Shanghai 200120 
Tel: (86) (21) 6061 8888
Fax: (86) (21) 6886 0908
SWIFT: UOVBCNSH
Website: UOBChina.com.cn
Date of Incorporation
18 December 2007
Registration Authority
Shanghai Administration of Industry and Commerce
Unified Social Credit Code
913100006694147236
Paid Up Share Capital
RMB 5,500,000,000
Shareholder (Founder)
United Overseas Bank Limited
Type of Company
Limited Company (Wholly Foreign-owned)
Supervisors
Wee Cho Yaw
Cham Tao Soon (Deputy Supervisor) 
Board of Directors
Wee Ee Cheong (Chairman)
Peter Foo Moo Tan (President and CEO)
Francis Lee Chin Yong
Christine Ip
Liu Erh Fei 
Zeng Zhi Jie
Executive Committee
Wee Ee Cheong (Chairman)
Peter Foo Moo Tan 
Francis Lee Chin Yong
Christine Ip
Nominating and Remuneration Committee
Zeng Zhi Jie  (Chairman) 
Wee Ee Cheong
Francis Lee Chin Yong
Liu Erh Fei
Audit Committee
Liu Erh Fei (Chairman with effect from 1 January 2018)
Zeng Zhi Jie   
Francis Lee Chin Yong  
Christine Ip 
Connected Transaction Control Committee
Liu Erh Fei (Chairman with effect from 1 January 2018)
Zeng Zhi Jie 
Francis Lee Chin Yong 
Board Risk Management Committee
Francis Lee Chin Yong  (Chairman) 
Zeng Zhi Jie 
Christine Ip
Liu Erh Fei
Auditors
Ernst & Young Hua Ming (LLP) Shanghai Office监事
Supervisor黄祖耀监事Wee Cho Yaw
Supervisor89 岁，自 2007 年 10 月 30 日起担任大华银行（中国）的监事。黄博士是一位拥有 50 多年经验的银行家。黄博士目前担任大华银行及大华银行（马来西亚）的荣誉主席兼顾 
问，同时也是大华银行（泰国）的董事会主席及大华银行（印尼）
的监事长。黄博士同时也是大华保险、虎豹企业、华业集团、泛太平洋酒店集团、
联合工业、滨海中心控股及黄氏基金的董事局主席。他亦是中正中
学的董事会主席。黄博士也是新加坡中华总商会、新加坡宗乡会馆联合总会及新加坡
福建会馆的名誉会长。Dr Wee, 89, was appointed as Supervisor of United Overseas 
Bank (China) on 30 October 2007.Dr Wee is a veteran banker with more than 50 years’ banking 
experience with the UOB Group.He is the Chairman Emeritus and Adviser of United Overseas 
Bank, Singapore and of United Overseas Bank (Malaysia), and is 
the Chairman of United Overseas Bank (Thai) Public Company 
and President Commissioner of PT Bank UOB Indonesia.His  other  board  chairmanships  include  United  Overseas 
Insurance, Haw Par Corporation, UOL Group, Pan Pacific Hotels 
Group, United Industrial Corporation, Marina Centre Holdings 
and Wee Foundation. He is also the Chairman of Chung Cheng 
High School.Dr Wee is the Honorary President of the Singapore Chinese 
Chamber of Commerce & Industry, Singapore Federation of 
Chinese Clan Associations and Singapore Hokkien Huay Kuan.UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|13黄博士接受过中文高中教育。他任职于多家学校管理委员会及南洋
大学和新加坡国立大学理事会。他于 2004 年起担任南洋理工大学
的名誉副校长，并于 2008 年和 2014 年分别获得由新加坡国立大学
和南洋理工大学颁发的荣誉文学博士学位。黄博士于 2001 年和 1990 年两度荣获新加坡商业颁奖礼“年度杰出
商人奖”。黄博士于 2006 年荣获首届“瑞信—安永终身成就奖”。
2009 年，《亚洲银行家》授予其终身成就奖。为了表彰黄博士在商
界的杰出成就，黄博士被授予 2017 年度“亚细安商业奖”的传承奖。2011 年，黄博士获象征新加坡最高荣耀的新加坡国庆“殊功勋章”，
以表彰其对新加坡经济、教育和社区工作的杰出贡献。Dr  Wee  received  Chinese  high  school  education.  He  had 
served  on  numerous  school  management  committees 
and the Councils of the Nanyang University and National 
University of Singapore. He has been the Pro-Chancellor of 
the Nanyang Technological University (NTU) since 2004. He 
was conferred an Honorary Degree of Doctor of Letters by 
the National University of Singapore in 2008 and a second 
Honorary Degree of Doctor of Letters in 2014 by NTU.Dr Wee was named Businessman of the Year twice at the 
Singapore Business Awards in 2001 and 1990. He received the 
inaugural Credit Suisse-Ernst & Young Lifetime Achievement 
Award in 2006 and The Asian Banker’s Lifetime Achievement 
Award in 2009. In recognition of his business achievements 
in the region, Dr Wee was conferred the Legacy Award for 
Singapore at the Asean Business Awards 2017.He  received  the  Distinguished  Service  Order,  Singapore’s 
highest National Day Award from the President of Singapore 
in 2011 for his outstanding contributions to the economic, 
education,  social  and  community  development  fields  in 
Singapore.14|大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告副监事
Deputy Supervisor詹道存副监事Cham Tao Soon 
Deputy Supervisor78 岁，自 2017 年 1 月 1 日起担任大华银行（中国）副监事之职。詹
教授曾于 2008 年至 2016 年期间担任本行独立及非执行董事。詹教授是新加坡 NSL、三盅两件集团及新加坡铁路学院董事长，也
是 SAP（亚太及日本区）顾问委员会成员。他还是 MFS 科技、维信
集团、大华银行及其附属公司远东银行的前董事。作为新加坡教育领域的杰出人物，詹教授是新加坡新跃大学的前名
誉校长和托管理事会主席，也是新加坡南洋理工大学的创校校长。
2003 年，詹教授获象征新加坡最高荣耀的新加坡国庆“殊功勋章”，
以表彰其在教育领域的杰出贡献。Prof Cham, 78, was appointed as the Deputy Supervisor of 
United Overseas Bank (China) with effective from 1 January 
2017.  Prof  Cham  was  a  non-executive  and  independent 
director of the Bank from 2008 to 2016.Prof  Cham  is  the  Chairman  of  NSL,  Soup  Restaurant  and 
Singapore Rail Academy, and a member of SAP (Asia Pacific 
Japan)  Advisory  Board.  He  is  a  former  director  of  MFS 
Technology, WBL Corporation and UOB Singapore and its 
subsidiary, Far Eastern Bank.A  prominent  figure  in  the  Singapore  education  scene, 
Prof Cham is the former Chancellor of SIM University and 
Chairman  of  its  Board  of  Trustees,  and  was  the  founding 
President  of  Nanyang  Technological  University.  For  his 
outstanding contributions to education, he was conferred 
the Distinguished Service Order, Singapore’s highest National 
Day Award, in 2003.UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|15作为一名经验丰富的专业工程师，詹教授拥有马来西亚大学土木工
程学学士荣誉学位、伦敦大学数学理学学士荣誉学位和英国剑桥大
学流体力学博士学位。他也是新加坡工程师协会、新加坡工程院、
英国皇家工程院、英国机械工程师学会的资深会员，以及瑞典皇家
工程科学院外籍院士。An  engineer  by  training,  Prof  Cham  holds  a  Bachelor  of 
Engineering  (Civil,  Hons)  from  the  University  of  Malaya, 
a  Bachelor  of  Science  in  Mathematics  (Hons)  from  the 
University of London and a Doctor of Philosophy in Fluid 
Mechanics from the University of Cambridge, UK. He is also 
a Fellow of the Institution of Engineers, Singapore, Academy 
of Engineering, Singapore, Royal Academy of Engineering, UK 
and Institution of Mechanical Engineers, UK and a foreign 
member of Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences.16|大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告董事会
Board of Directors黄一宗董事长Wee Ee Cheong
Chairman65 岁，2007 年 12 月 5 日受委任为大华银行（中国）董事会董事长、
非执行非独立董事，同时也是本行执行委员会主席和提名及薪酬委
员会成员。黄先生是一位拥有超过 35 年从业经验的职业银行家，他于 1979 年
加入大华银行，并自 1990 年起担任大华银行董事。目前担任大华银
行副董事长及首席执行官。黄先生同时也是大华保险、大华银行（马来西亚）及大华银行（泰国）
的董事。他还兼任大华银行（印尼）的副监事长。黄先生积极参与促进行业发展，是新加坡银行公会、新加坡银行与
金融学院以及印尼—新加坡商业理事会的成员。他亦是新中教育基
金会理事会和 Visa APCEMEA 资深客户理事会的成员，以及新加坡中
华总商会名誉理事。此前，他也曾担任新加坡建屋发展局的副主席
以及新加坡港务局、 华业集团及泛太平洋酒店集团、大华证券的董
事。Mr  Wee,  65,  was  appointed  as  Director  and  Chairman 
of  the  Bank  on  5  December  2007.  A  non-executive  and 
non-independent  director,  he  is  the  Chairman  of  the 
Executive Committee and a member of the Nominating and 
Remuneration Committee.A  career  banker  with  more  than  35  years  of  banking 
experience  in  the  UOB  Group,  Mr  Wee  joined  United 
Overseas Bank, Singapore (UOB Singapore) in 1979 and has 
been a director of UOB Singapore since 1990. He is currently 
the Deputy Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of UOB 
Singapore.He also holds directorships in United Overseas Insurance, 
United  Overseas  Bank  (Malaysia)  and  United  Overseas 
Bank  (Thai)  Public  Company.  He  is  the  Deputy  President 
Commissioner of PT Bank UOB Indonesia.Active in industry development, Mr Wee is a council member 
of The Association of Banks in Singapore, The Institute of 
Banking  &  Finance  and  the  Indonesia-Singapore  Business 
Council. He is a member of the Board of Governors of the 
Singapore-China Foundation, Visa APCEMEA Senior Client 
Council and an honorary council member of the Singapore 
Chinese Chamber of Commerce & Industry. He was previously 
deputy chairman of the Housing & Development Board and a 
director of the Port of Singapore Authority, UOL Group, Pan 
Pacific Hotels Group and United International Securities.UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|17董事会
Board of Directors鉴于他对金融业的贡献，2013 年他荣获新加坡政府颁发的“公共服
务星章”。黄先生热衷艺术事业，是南洋艺术学院的赞助人，也是黄氏基金的
董事。黄一宗先生拥有华盛顿特区美国大学理学学士（工商管理）学位和
文学硕士（应用经济学）学位。In 2013, he was awarded the Singapore Public Service Star 
by the Singapore Government for his contributions to the 
financial industry.A keen art enthusiast, Mr Wee is the Patron of the Nanyang 
Academy  of  Fine  Arts.  He  is  also  a  director  of  the  Wee 
Foundation.Mr Wee holds a Bachelor of Science (Business Administration) 
and a Master of Arts (Applied Economics) from American 
University, Washington, DC.18|大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告符懋赞行长兼首席执行官Peter FOO Moo Tan
President and Chief Executive Offi cer (CEO)符懋赞先生，55 岁，于 2016 年 12 月 19 日出任大华银行（中国）行
长兼首席执行官一职，并于 2017 年 1 月 18 日受委任加入董事会。作
为执行非独立董事，他同时也是本行执行委员会成员。符懋赞先生
亦是大华银行集团管理委员会成员。符先生于 2011 年加入大华银行，主管资金和环球金融部海外分支机
构业务，并于 2012 年开始担任大华银行（泰国）行长兼首席执行官
一职。符先生拥有 30 多年银行业从业经验。加入大华银行之前，符先生在
富通银行任职 11 年，期间出任多个管理职位，包括新加坡分行首席
执行官、亚太董事会成员、私人银行新加坡董事总经理以及新加坡
分行环球金融部主管。此前，他的职业经历还包括于 1988 至 2000
年间，先后在美国纽约化学银行，美国银行以及奥地利银行担任管
理职务。符先生的职业生涯始于 1987 年，作为管理培训生加入壳牌
公司新加坡分公司。符先生是 CFA 协会资本市场政策委员会的委员，也曾担任国际金
融市场协会（ACI）的行政委员会成员及东亚区代表 ,  新加坡特许
金融分析师学会（CFA Singapore）董事会成员 ,  以及新加坡银行公
会 (ABS) 委员。符先生拥有新加坡国立大学房地产管理学士荣誉学位，也是一名特
许金融分析师（CFA）。Mr Foo Moo Tan, 55, was appointed President and CEO on 
19 December 2016 and a director of the Board on 18 January 
2017.  An executive and non-independent  director, he  is  a 
member of UOB (China)’s Executive Committee. Mr Foo is 
also a member of UOB Group Management committee.Mr  Foo  joined  UOB  in  2011  as  the  Head  of  the  Group’s 
Treasury  and  Global  Markets  business  for  its  overseas 
subsidiaries and branches. He also served as President and 
CEO of UOB (Thai) from 2012.Mr  Foo  has  more  than  30  years  of  experience  in  banking 
and financial markets. Prior to joining UOB, he served for 11 
years at Fortis Bank, S.A./N.V. Singapore, where he assumed 
many  management  roles  including  the  CEO,  Asia  Pacific 
Management Board member, Managing Director of Private 
Banking and Head of Global Markets.Mr  Foo's  previous  professional  experience  also  includes 
holding  various  executive  positions  at  Bank  Austria 
Creditanstalt,  Bank  of  America,  and  Chemical  Bank 
between 1988 and 2000. Mr Foo embarked on the career as 
management associate with Shell Singapore in 1987.Mr  Foo  is  a  Council  Member  of  Capital  Markets  Policy 
Council  (CMPC)  of  CFA  Institute.  He  also  served  as  the 
Executive Committee Member and Regional Representative 
of South East Asia of ACI-The Financial Markets Association, 
Board Member of CFA Singapore and Council Member of the 
Association of Banks in Singapore.Mr Foo holds a Bachelor of Estate Management (Hons) from 
the  National  University  of  Singapore  and  is  a  Chartered 
Financial Analyst (CFA).UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|19董事会
Board of Directors李振荣Francis Lee Chin Yong64 岁，2008 年 1 月 25 日受委任加入董事会。作为非执行非独立董事，
他同时也是本行董事会风险管理委员会主席及执行委员会、提名及
薪酬委员会、审计委员会、关联交易控制委员会成员。李先生于 1980 年加入大华银行 ( 马来西亚 )，在 2003 年就职于新加
坡大华银行之前 , 他是大华银行（马来西亚）的首席执行官。2003
年至 2008 年，李先生担任大华银行国际部主管，负责集团的区域
扩展，也曾负责大华银行在新加坡和区域的个人业务。目前，李先
生担任大华银行董事总经理及集团零售业务主管，负责大华银行集
团的个人和小企业零售业务。李先生现在多家大华银行附属公司担任董事，包括大华银行（泰国）、
大华银行地产投资、以及 Junipa，也是大华银行（印尼）的监事会成员。李先生具有超过三十八年金融业从业经验。Mr Lee, 64, was appointed to the Board on 25 January 2008. 
A non-executive and non-independent director, he is the 
Chairman  of  Bank’s  Board  Risk  Management  Committee 
and  a  member  of  the  Bank’s  Executive,  Nominating  and 
Remuneration,  Audit,  Connected  Transactions  Control 
Committees.He joined United Overseas Bank (Malaysia) in 1980 and last 
served as CEO prior to his appointment to United Overseas 
Bank Singapore (“UOB Singapore”) in 2003. Between 2003 
and  2008,  Mr  Lee  was  the  Head  of  International  and 
spearheaded the UOB Group’s expansion in the region. He 
was also responsible for UOB Singapore’s consumer banking 
business in Singapore and the region. In his current portfolio 
as  Managing  Director  and  Head  of  Group  Retail  at  UOB 
Singapore, he leads the UOB Group’s retail businesses for 
consumers and small business customers.Mr Lee is a director of several UOB Singapore subsidiaries, 
including United Overseas Bank (Thai) Public Company, UOB 
Property Investments and Junipa, and is a member of the 
Board of Commissioners of PT Bank UOB Indonesia.He has more than 38 years’ of banking experience.20 大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告|叶杨诗明Christine Ip54 岁，2011 年 8 月 22 日受委任加入董事会。作为非执行非独立董事，
她同时也是本行执行委员会、审计委员会和董事会风险管理委员会
成员。叶女士于 2011 年加入大华银行，并于 2011 年 12 月被委任为大华银行
香港分行首席执行官，拥有 30 多年的个人银行及企业银行从业经验。
叶女士自 2016 年 7 月 1 日起担任大华银行大中华地区首席执行官，
负责大中华业务发展策略。在加入大华银行之前，叶女士曾在中国香港、美国、加拿大、新加坡
和中国大陆等地区担任过产品开发、销售管理、客户管理和风险管理
等一系列高级管理层职位。叶女士同时也是新加坡数码通电讯集团有限公司的独立非执行董事。鉴于其在金融行业中的卓越成就，叶女士于 2008 年荣获亚洲零售商
会议颁发的“全球零售银行家领导奖”，并被中国杰出女企业家联谊
会评选为“2012 年中国百名杰出女企业家”。叶女士拥有香港大学文学学士学位及香港科技大学工商管理硕士学
位。Mrs Ip, 54, was appointed to the Board on 22 August 2011. 
A  non-executive  and  non-independent  director,  she  is 
a  member  of  the  Bank’s  Executive,  Audit  and  Board  Risk 
Management Committees.A  veteran  banker  with  more  than  30  years’  experience  in 
both consumer and corporate banking, Mrs Ip joined UOB in 
2011 and was appointed as CEO of UOB Hong Kong Branch 
in December 2011. Mrs Ip was appointed as CEO for UOB 
Greater China with effect from 1 July 2016, and is responsible 
for developing UOB’s business in Greater China.Prior to joining UOB, Mrs Ip held several senior management 
positions  in  product  and  sales  management,  customer 
segment management and risk management in Hong Kong, 
the United States, Canada, Singapore and mainland China.She  is  also  an  independent  non-executive  director  of 
SmarTone Telecommunications Holdings Limited.In  recognition  of  her  achievements,  Mrs  Ip  received  the 
Asia Retail Congress Best International Retail Banker award 
in 2008 and was named as one of the top 100 outstanding 
Chinese businesswomen in the Greater China region in 2012 
by the China Outstanding Female Entrepreneurs Association.Mrs Ip holds a Bachelor of Arts from the University of Hong 
Kong and a Master of Business Administration from the Hong 
Kong University of Science and Technology.UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|21董事会
Board of Directors刘二飞Liu Erh Fei59 岁，2017 年 1 月 20 日受委任加入董事会。作为独立及非执行董事，
他同时也是本行审计委员会和关联交易控制委员会主席，及提名及薪
酬委员会和董事会风险管理委员会成员。刘先生现任亚洲投资基金的创始合伙人及首席执行官，同时也担任信
泰资本管理有限公司董事。刘先生还在永隆银行担任独立董事职务。刘先生曾担任美林中国区主席及美银美林中国区总经理。他还曾在高
盛集团、摩根士丹利、所罗门美邦国际、东方汇理银行担任高层。刘先生拥有布兰迪斯大学经济学和国际关系学士学位，及哈佛商学院
工商管理学硕士学位。Mr  Liu,  59,  was  appointed  to  the  Board  on  20  January 
2017.  A  non-executive  and  independent  director,  he  is 
the  Chairman  of  the  Audit  and  Connected  Transactions 
Control Committees, and a member of the Nominating and 
Remuneration and Board Risk Management Committees.Mr Liu is currently the founding partner and CEO of Asia 
Investment  Fund.  He  also  serves  as  a  director  of  Cindat 
Capital  Management  Limited,  as  well  as  an  independent 
director for Wing Lung Bank Limited.Mr Liu was formerly the Chairman of Merrill Lynch China 
and Country Executive of Bank of America Merrill Lynch. He 
had previously worked as head of Asia or China for Goldman 
Sachs, Morgan Stanley, Smith Barney and Indosuez.He holds a Bachelor of Arts in Economics and International 
Relations from Brandeis University, and a Master of Business 
Administration from Harvard Business School.22|大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告曾之杰Zeng Zhi Jie49 岁，2010 年 11 月 18 日受委任加入董事会。作为独立及非执行董事，
他同时也是本行提名及薪酬委员会主席，及审计委员会、关联交易控
制委员会和董事会风险管理委员会成员。曾先生现任深圳鸿泰基金投资管理有限公司管理合伙人兼董事长。曾先生还在中软国际有限公司、国微技术控股有限公司及港中旅华贸
国际物流股份有限公司三家上市公司担任独立董事职务。此外，曾先
生还担任中国投资协会创业投资专业委员会第一届联席会长、AAMA
亚杰商会理事长和欧美同学会 2005 委员会理事职务。曾先生曾担任华登国际董事总经理，负责华登国际在中国和亚太地区
的风险投资业务。曾先生也曾担任中信资本控股有限公司高级董事总
经理、开信创业投资管理有限公司总经理。他还曾任职于中信泰富有
限公司（香港）及三菱商事株式会社（东京）。曾先生拥有日本长崎大学经济学学士和斯坦福大学管理学硕士学位。Mr Zeng, 49, was appointed to the Board on 18 November 
2010. A non-executive and independent director, he is the 
Chairman of the Nominating and Remuneration Committee, 
and a member of the Audit, Connected Transactions Control 
and Board Risk Management Committees.Mr Zeng is currently the Managing Partner and Chairman of 
Shenzhen Hongtai Fund Investment Management Co., Ltd.He  serves  as  an  independent  director  for  three  listed 
companies, namely, Chinasoft International, SMIT Holdings 
Limited and CTS International Logistics Corporation Limited. 
He is co-chairman of the China Venture Capital Association 
of  Investment  Association  of  China  and  the  Executive 
Director of Asia America Multi-Technology Association China 
Branch. He also serves on the Western Returned Scholars 
Association Chamber of Commerce 2005 Committee.Mr  Zeng  was  formerly  a  Managing  Director  at  Walden 
International, where he was mainly responsible for venture 
investments in China and Asia Pacific. Mr Zeng was also the 
former Senior Managing Director of CITIC Capital Holdings 
and  the  General  Manager  of  Kaixin  Investment.  He  had 
previously worked for CITIC Pacific Limited in Hong Kong and 
Mitsubishi Corporation in Japan.He  holds  a  Bachelor  of  Science  in  Economics  from  the 
University of Nagasaki, Japan, and a Master of Science in 
Management from Stanford University.UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|23大华银行（中国）组织架构图
UOB (China) Organisation Chart Y2017集团条规遵行Group Compliance股东Shareholder监事Supervisor董事会Board of Directors行长兼首席执行官
President and CEO审计委员会Audit Committee关联交易控制委员会
Connected TransactionsControl Committee提名及薪酬委员会Nominating and RemunerationCommittee董事会风险管理委员会Board Risk Management Committee执行委员会Executive Committee行长办公室
CEO Office私人银行部
Private Banking个人金融服务
Personal FinancialServices北区North Region东区East Region南区South Region西区West Region渠道及数字化
Channels and 
Digitalisation深圳分行
Shenzhen广州分行
Guangzhou厦门分行
Xiamen重庆分行
Chongqing成都分行
Chengdu昆明分行
Kunming渠道战略及管理
Channels Strategy 
and Management渠道运营管理部Process Management &Assurance Office财富管理销售Wealth Management Distribution北京分行Beijing上海分行
Shanghai财富管理产品Deposits, Investment and Insurance抵押贷款Secured Lending流程管理及客户服务管理
Process Management andCustomer Service业务规划及绩效管理Business Planning and PerformanceManagement数字金融创新和需求管理Digital Acceleration, Project andDemand Management市场、数字营销及业务发展Marketing, Digital Sales 
and Partnership Alliance北京东城支行Dongcheng北京燕莎中心支行Lufthansa Centre天津分行Tianjin沈阳分行
Shenyang上海外滩支行
Shanghai Bund上海自贸试验区支行
Shanghai Pilot FreeTrade Zone上海静安支行Jingan杭州分行
Hangzhou苏州分行
Suzhou合规Compliance财务及企业服务Finance and CorporateServices企业银行信贷
Corporate Credit商业银行信贷Commercial Credit个人信贷Retail Credit科技及营运Technology and Operations财务
Finance总务General Services物业Property企业银行信贷
Corporate Credit信贷特管Special Asset 
Management个人信贷催收Credit Management个人信贷审批
Credit Approval反洗钱 / 反恐怖融资合规
Anti-Money Laundering/Countering Financing of Terrorism批发银行合规Wholesale Banking Compliance零售银行合规Retail Banking Compliance银行合规和监管事务Corporate Compliance  andRegulatory Affairs合规检查及管理层报告
Compliance Review andManagement Report零售银行业务营运
Retail Operations批发银行业务营运
Wholesale Operations信息安全和科技与营运保障Information Security, Technologyand Operations Assurance信息科技服务Business Technology Services共享设施服务Shared Infrastructure Services科技与营运
行政与财务
T&O AdminSupport and Finance科技及营运服务管理T&O Service Management24 大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告|操作风险管理委员会Operational Risk ManagementCommittee消费者权益保护委员会Consumer Rights ProtectionCommittee风险与资本委员会
Risk and CapitalCommittee资产负债委员会
Asset and LiabilityCommittee企业银行Corporate Banking商业银行Commercial Banking交易银行Transaction Banking环球金融部
Global Markets金融机构Financial InstitutionsGroup跨国企业银行Multinational Corporate结构性贸易及商品融资
Structured Trade and 
Commodity Finance现钞Banknotes银行同业
Banking非银行金融机构Non-Banking房地产基金
Property Fund消费类产业（食品、农
业、饮品及其他消费品）Consumer Goods (Food, 
Agriculture, Beverage and 
other consumer goods)科技、媒体、通信产业Technology/Media/
Telecommunications房地产及酒店配套服务产业Real Estate and Hospitality油气产业 
Oil and Gas建设及基建产业
Construction andInfrastructure工业产业（包括汽车、工
业农产品、金属矿业 , 机
械类及其他一般制造业）
Industrials (Auto, Industry 
Agriculture, Metal & Mining,Machinery and other 
general manufacturing)其他产业（如运输、物流、健康产业等）Others (Transportation, 
Logistics, Healthcare, etc)分行商业银行Commercial Banking(Branches)贸易融资销售及咨询Trade Sales andAdvisory投资组合与流动性管理Portfolio & LiquidityManagement现金销售及咨询Cash Management andAdvisory贸易融资产品管理Trade Product
Management现金产品管理
Cash Product 
Management存款产品管理
Liability ProductManagement市场交易Market Making环球市场产品结构Global Markets Structure环球市场销售Global Markets Sales业务管理与财务Business Management andBusiness Finance信贷分析Credit Analysts产品行销Product Sales Specialists海外直接投资咨询
China Foreign DirectInvestment企业财富管理Corporate WealthManagement环球业务拓展
China GlobalBusiness Development业务支持Shared Support Services人力资源Human Resources (HR)风险管理Risk Management法律与秘书Legal and Secretariat品牌兼策略通讯与客户权益部Brand, Strategic Communications andCustomer Advocacy内部审计Internal Audit人才与组织发展Talent and Organisation Development信贷风险管理Credit Risk Management法律
Legal客户实施及服务
Client Fulfillment& Service秘书Secretariat理财事业部Wealth Governance绩效与薪酬Rewards人力资源服务HR Services人力资源业务伙伴HR Business Management公司人力资源
Corporate HR分行人力资源管理Branch HR Management资产负债风险管理Balance Sheet Risk Management市场风险管理及监控
Market Risk Management& Product Control操作风险管理Operational Risk Management欺诈风险管理Integrated Fraud Management常规审计General Audit资讯科技审计
Technology AuditUNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|25管理层报告
2017 in Review图片说明：大华直销银行 APP 正式启动上线（自左至右：大华银行（中国）
渠道及数字化部主管卢绍康，行长兼首席执行官符懋赞，个人金融服务部主
管林培丰，首席技术官陈垙荣）。From left to right: Mr Rodney Lo, Head of Channels and Digitalisation of UOB 
(China), Mr Peter Foo, President and CEO of UOB (China), Mr Winston Lim, Head 
of Personal Financial Services of UOB (China), Steven Tan, CIO of UOB (China) 
launching the UOB (China) Direct Banking appRetail Banking
Providing Digital Solutions to Customers
China is at the forefront of moving to a cashless society. In 
line with this move, UOB harnesses digital technology to 
provide convenient payment options and digital financial 
solutions to match our customers’ life stages and lifestyle 
needs.As part of our digitalisation strategy, in January 2017, we were 
one of the first foreign banks to offer WeChat payment and 
remittance services to customers. By linking their UOB (China) 
debit card to their WeChat account, our customers can enjoy 
the convenience of digital payments and money transfers.In August 2017, we then launched our Direct Banking app – 
the first direct banking mobile app offered by a foreign bank 
in China. The app integrates wealth management solutions 
and lifestyle offerings for emerging affluent customers who 
are digitally-savvy, discerning and desire quality information 
and solutions to meet their financial and lifestyle needs.With the UOB (China) Direct Banking mobile app, consumers 
can open a type-II bank account and manage their finances 
and investments on the go, without needing to visit a branch. 
They can also receive professional advice and have access to 
a wide range of wealth management solutions based on their 
risk profile and appetite. Through the app, customers also 
receive information and recommendations on overseas travel, 
entertainment and leisure options, as well as parenting and 
education tips. They also enjoy exclusive lifestyle benefits 
and privileges offered by our merchant partners.The Direct Banking app won the Direct Banking Innovation 
Award by Hexun, the leading finance portal in China, in 2017.零售银行
为客户推出数字解决方案
2017 年移动支付的繁荣推动中国向“无现金社会”转变。 大华银行
（中国）积极运用数字化转型，为我们的零售客户提供更方便的支
付选择和数字金融解决方案，迎合他们当下的生活方式。
       
2017 年 1 月，大华银行（中国）作为首批外资银行正式上线微信支付。
我行客户可以在享受专属理财规划服务的同时，更便捷地在手机端
体验无现金消费的服务。积极推进数字化服务，个人金融服务部  于 2017 年 8 月发布了“华
彩生活”大华直销银行 APP，这是国内首个由外资银行为中国新兴
富裕阶层打造的“优选金融 + 精致生活”综合直销银行。大华直销银行针对新兴富裕阶层乐于接受数字化的资讯阅读和理财
方式、以及对品质生活的渴求进行设计。用户可以在线开立直销银
行二类账户，轻松找到符合他们金融需求和风险级别的投资产品，
通过专业内容团队的筛选和推送，用户还可了解有关全球市场、海
外居住、菁英教育、环球旅游及轻奢消费的优质资讯；并通过平台
精选合作伙伴，享受专属权益和优惠折扣。大华直销银行还在 2017 年被和讯网授予“年度直销银行创新奖”。26 大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告|帮助个人投资者灵活理财
2017 年，个人金融服务部全新推出代客境外理财计划——结构性票
据（QDSN）产品线。客户通过选择结构性票据产品，无论在挂钩
标的资产、投资货币、或投资策略方面都能拥有丰富灵活的选择。继 8 月首次推出看涨期权结构之后，我们又在 11 月份推出自动敲出
结构，从而不断丰富 QDSN 产品平台。帮助客户提升下一代的素质教育
根据《大华银行 2016 年度新兴富裕消费者调查（中国）》，我们了
解到中国越来越多的新兴富裕消费者开始为子女的高等教育提前制
定财务计划。他们也在寻找各种方法，帮助子女培养学术技能以外
的能力。因此，针对培育下一代成长的需求，我们推出了针对不同年龄层孩
子的教育项目，包括夏 / 冬季海外艺术游学项目 , 未来领行家项目
以及菁英培优计划。
 
通过这些项目，我们希望提供更多发展机会帮助客户提升子女的创
造性和关键性思维，解决问题的能力、团队合作及企业家精神和社
会责任感，实现个人潜能。Helping Retail Investors Manage Their Investment portfolio
To help our customers diversify their overseas investment 
portfolio, in 2017 we launched a new Qualified Domestic 
Institutional Investor-Structured Notes (QDSN) product line. 
The QDSN offers customers the flexibility to choose from 
different underlying assets, foreign currencies and investment 
strategies when building their portfolio.Following the launch of the Participation Call Structured 
Notes in August, we launched Auto-call Structure Notes in 
November 2017 to enrich our product offerings.Helping Customers Plan for Their Children’s Education
According to the 2016 UOB Emerging Affluent Consumer Survey 
(China), emerging affluent Chinese place great emphasis on 
a well-rounded education for their children. We understand 
that  our  customers  not  only  plan  their  finances  well  in 
advance of their children’s tertiary education, they also look 
at various means to help their children develop holistically 
beyond academic skills.Recognising  this  need,  we  continued  to  offer  a  series  of 
children and youth development programmes including Art 
Camp Programme, Future Leader Programme and Youth’s Elite 
Programme.Through  these  programmes,  we  provided  the  avenue  for 
our  customers’  children  to  strengthen  their  creative  and 
critical thinking, to develop problem-solving skills and to 
foster the spirit of teamwork, entrepreneurship and social 
responsibility.图片说明：大华银行 2017 冬季游学之旅参观新加坡国家美术馆，在专业艺术
老师带领下畅游在艺术的海洋。Our customers’ children learning from a professional art teacher at the National 
Gallery Singapore the winter Art Camp in 2017.UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|27管理层报告
2017 in Review图片说明：大华银行（中国）昆明分行成立剪彩仪式。At the opening ceremony of our Kunming branch in Yunnan, ChinaWholesale Banking
We continued to capitalise on the strengths of UOB Group’s 
integrated regional network and expanded our presence to 
connect our clients to opportunities across Asia.Providing Specialised Sector Expertise to Our Clients
In 2017, we deepened our sector expertise and conducted 
intensive  research  on  various  industry  value  chains  to 
understand our clients’ needs and to help them succeed in 
their business plans.Our improved capabilities helped us to increase our client 
base across different sectors.Deepening Our Support of Chinese Companies’ Expanding 
Through the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI)
We  opened  our  Kunming  Branch  in  November  2017  to 
support  businesses  in  Southwest  China  in  their  cross-
border expansion plans. Through the new branch we provide 
onshore  and  offshore  solutions  in  areas  such  as  cash 
management,  foreign  exchange  hedging,  term  loans,  and 
project and supply chain financing. The Kunming branch also 
complements our operations in West China’s Chengdu and 
Chongqing.During the year, UOB also signed a Memorandum of Understanding 
(MOU) with the China Chamber of International Commerce 
(CCOIC), China’s national business association, to deepen 
our  support  of  Chinese  companies  expanding  through 
the BRI into the region. The agreement with CCOIC is an 
extension of UOB’s long-standing partnership with the China 
Council for the Promotion of International Trade (CCPIT). In 
addition, we signed two MOUs with the Yunnan Chamber 
of International Commerce and CCPIT’s Jiangsu Sub-Council 
respectively. UOB was the first and only bank in ASEAN to 
enter into MOUs with both CCPIT and CCOIC.机构银行2017 年，我们继续发挥集团在东南亚广泛的区域资源，并不断扩展
我们的业务网络，以帮助我行客户把握亚洲市场商机。聚焦行业发展，优化资产配置
我行在 2017 年进一步明确了以行业为导向的业务指引，结合大华银
行对不同行业的区域性覆盖，我们的专业团队立足于客户需求，深
耕产业链，在多个行业都实现了客户数量或业务规模的增长。把握“一带一路”倡议契机，稳步推进跨境服务
2017 年 11 月，大华银行（中国）昆明分行正式开业，助力云南及西
南周边企业客户进军亚洲市场。昆明分行为西南地区的企业客户，
提供现金管理、外汇交易及结构化产品、企业贷款、项目及供应链
融资等一系列在岸和离岸金融解决方案。它连同我们的成都与重庆
分行，进一步加强大华银行对西部经济圈的辐射。2017 年，大华银行与中国国家级商业协会——中国国际商会签署了
合作备忘录，共同协助中国企业响应“一带一路”倡议，进军东南
亚市场。我们与中国国际商会的合作是大华银行与中国国际贸易促
进委员会（中国贸促会）长期合作伙伴关系的延续。年内，大华银
行（中国）昆明分行和苏州分行也分别与中国国际商会云南商会和
中国贸促会江苏分会签订了合作协议。28 大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告|迄今为止，大华银行是东南亚第一家也是唯一一家与中国贸促会和
中国国际商会都签订过合作备忘录的银行。通过这两家机构与大华
银行之间的合作，由两家机构代表的中国企业可以获得大华银行的
整套境内及跨境解决方案，以及我行覆盖东南亚的合作伙伴网络资
源。同时我们还与这两家机构共同协助我行东南亚地区的客户在中
国开展各种项目和业务。为了帮助更多中国企业了解并把握跨境商机，我行在多个城市组织
投资研讨会，深入分析东南亚市场的机遇与挑战。活动深受来自能
源、基础设施、消费品以及制造等多个行业的企业欢迎。企业银行
我们积极落实中新创新及自贸区金融改革政策，充分发挥相关分行
在地理、政策等方面的特有优势，帮助客户实现更有效的资金管理
和跨境方案。去年全年，企业银行部在上海自贸区分行，苏州分行
及重庆分行的业务发展取得了显著进步。如自贸区团队的平均资产
规模同比增长逾一倍，苏州分行团队的收入及平均资产规模同比增
长约四倍，重庆分行团队的资产规模同比增长 33%。同时，企业银行部积极响应“一带一路”国家战略，依托于大华银
行集团在东南亚健全的区域网络和显著的优势地位，为致力“走出去”
的中国企业提供无缝的跨境金融服务和解决方案。2017 年，我行为
国内某大型乳企及其上游企业牵头了境外银团贷款来帮助其进行产
业链纵向整合；我行亦为国内某纺织龙头企业在越南的业务扩张设
立了区域性贸易融资架构。2017 年整年，企业银行部新支持的开展
海外业务的企业数量增加 148 家，整体贷款规模同比增长 11.2%。图片说明：大华银行于 2017 年 6 月与中国国际商会签订合作备忘录，支持响
应“一带一路”倡议的中国企业的海外发展。UOB signed a MOU with CCOIC in June 2017 to facilitate the overseas expansion 
plans of more Chinese companies.Through  the  collaboration  between  UOB  and  the  two 
organisations,  Chinese  companies  represented  by  either 
organisation  can  access  UOB’s  comprehensive  suite  of 
local and cross-border solutions, as well as the ecosystem 
of  strategic  partners  across  the  Group’s  Southeast  Asian 
network.  Both  parties  will  also  facilitate  UOB’s  regional 
clients’ projects and businesses in China.To  help  more  Chinese  companies  explore  and  seize 
opportunities  in  ASEAN,  we  hosted  several  investment 
seminars across different cities to share with our clients our 
insights on the business opportunities and challenges. These 
events were well received by participants from sectors such 
as energy, infrastructure, consumer goods and manufacturing.Corporate Banking
In  2017,  we  capitalised  on  the  strengthened  government-
to-government  (G2G)  partnerships  between  China  and 
Singapore, as well as the geographical advantages of China’s 
Free  Trade  Zones  (FTZs)  and  the  favourable  regulatory 
policies arising from their continued development to provide 
our clients with seamless cross-border financial solutions. 
As a result, Corporate Banking’s average total assets doubled 
at  the  Shanghai  FTZ  Sub-branch  and  grew  33  per  cent  at 
Chongqing Branch. Our revenue and average total assets also 
grew four times from the year before at Suzhou Branch.We also continued to support our clients’ financial needs as 
they tapped the BRI to grow their business.  For example, we 
led the offshore syndicated financing for a large-sized dairy 
company’s acquisition within the industry. We also provided 
cross-border trade financing to a leading textile company to 
support its business expansion in Vietnam. In 2017, we helped 
148 clients to expand across the region, which contributed to 
an 11.2 per cent year-on-year growth in gross loans.UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|29管理层报告
2017 in Review图片说明：我行在年内举办了两次“一带一路交流会”向中国企业分享东南
亚市场的投资环境及机遇。
We  hosted  two  BRI  seminars  this  year  to  share  our  insights  on  ASEAN’s 
investment opportunities for Chinese companies.商业银行
2017 年，得益于大华银行集团遍布东南亚的商业网络，专业知识以
及优质资源，同时响应中国政府大力推动的“一带一路”项目，商
业银行部继续致力于帮助中国企业“走出去”，以促进对外投资和
贸易的持续发展。Commercial Banking 
Tapping  on the Group’s extensive network, expertise  and 
resources,  we  continue  to  support  our  clients  in  their 
regional expansion to seize opportunities arising from the 
BRI in 2017.一方面，我们通过外国直接投资（FDI）咨询部，支持中国企业的跨
境发展。FDI 咨询部已与政府机构、贸易和投资协会以及专业服务
提供商建立合作关系，共同推动亚洲市场内贸易、金融及物流等领
域的互联互通。自 2011 年成立以来，FDI 咨询部团队已协助中资企
业投资到东南亚市场超过人民币 2,000 亿元。我们在 2017 年与部分
企业签订了合作协议，助力他们拓展东南亚市场。另一方面，“粤港澳大湾区”发展计划的提出有力进一步推动广东、
香港、澳门之间的经济合作与交流，并将极大促进湾区内金融、制
造、航运等多个行业的发展。据专家预计，“粤港澳大湾区”将成
为 2030 年成为 GDP 总量第一湾区。我们与香港和台湾的团队通力
合作，共同探索打造金融解决方案，帮助更多客户抓住这一历史发
展机遇。我们通过与企业银行部和跨国企业团队紧密合作，向客户提供创新
的解决方案和服务，以支持客户的业务增长。例如，我们的供应链
融资解决方案使客户（主要是跨国公司和大型企业）的供应商和分
销商能够获得有利的融资条款，这有助于帮助价值链上的客户群改
善他们的现金管理。同时，我们也在集团的大力支持下积极探索为
中国新兴创新性企业提供融资服务方案。2017 年商业银行部业务稳健增长，各项业务收入同比增长 14%，贷
款规模和存款规模分别同比增长 20% 和 11%One  way  in  which  we  support  our  clients’  cross-border 
expansion  is  through  our  Foreign  Direct  Investment  (FDI) 
Advisory Unit, which actively promotes regional connectivity 
in the areas of trade, finance and logistics by working closely 
with government agencies, trade and industry associations 
and professional service providers. Since it was established 
in 2011, the team has facilitated business flows of more than 
RMB200  billion  from  Chinese  companies  expanding  into 
ASEAN, some of which we signed MOUs with to support 
their overseas business expansion.We continued to collaborate closely with our colleagues 
in Hong Kong and Taiwan to offer financial solutions that 
enable our clients to capture the immense opportunities 
arising from the development of the Greater Bay Area (GBA). 
The  GBA  aims  to  promote  economic  integration  among 
Guangdong, Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan, which will create 
business  opportunities  in  sectors  such  as  manufacturing, 
finance and shipping. The GBA is expected to become the 
world's largest bay area in terms of gross domestic product 
by 2030.We  worked  closely  with  the  Corporate  Banking  and 
Multinational  Corporate  teams  to  offer  supply  chain 
financing solutions to our clients and their suppliers and 
distributors, which helped improve cash flow management 
for  all  the  companies  across  the  value  chain.  We  also 
explored the financing solutions to innovative enterprises 
and startups in China with strong support from the Group.In 2017, our total income, total loan and deposits all grew 
steadily recording 14 per cent, 20 percent and 11 per cent 
growth year-on-year respectively.30 大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告|结构贸易与商品融资
2017 年，结构贸易与商品融资部继续拓展基于背对背结构的信用证
融资的客户群，帮助客户提高跨境大宗商品采购的资金使用效率。同时我们成功完成首单基于自贸区分账核算单元的创新业务。该尝
试印证我部能够通过自贸区的金融创新，为其他有类似融资需求的
客户提供更便捷、灵活的融资方案。2017 年，为给核心客户提供高效的金融服务，我们也积极提高工作
效率，优化了内部流程。业务领域的创新以及及时高效的服务，使
得我部业务同比增长超过 50%。交易银行
大华银行（中国）交易银行部团队持续投入提升现金管理、贸易融资、
供应链融资产品的竞争力，为客户提供全方位服务，以满足客户不
断变化的需求和帮助他们在不断变化的外部环境中实现业务增长。在过去的一年，我们提升了企业网上银行服务功能，引入了大华银
行虚拟账户解决方案，同时扩充了供应链融资的整体解决方案，为
我们的核心客户的战略性供应商与经销商给予流动性支持，除此之
外，我们为同业客户推出了福费廷业务。2017 年，交易银行部业绩表现优异，全年实现 15 个百分点的业务收 
入增长，贸易融资收入 ( 含同业贸易融资 ) 较上年度增长 49 个百分
点，同时活期存款增长 31 个百分点。我们对业务的全力投入和扎实的业务能力，也令交易银行部团队荣
获了《今日资金管理》评定的亚当·斯密奖亚洲区最佳 SWIFT 解决方
案高度推荐奖。这个含金量极高的奖项既彰显了我们与客户紧密的
合作关系，同时也是对交易银行团队为客户提供全套金融解决方案
中付出的不懈努力的认同。Structured Trade and Commodity Finance
In  2017,  we  launched  a  new  structured  trade  facility  that 
helps our clients enhance their cash efficiency for the cross-
border procurement of commodities. Our widened offering 
enabled us to increase our client base during the year.We also completed our first financing deal based on the 
Free Trade Accounting Unit system.  This accounting system 
was  approved  by  the  People’s  Bank  of  China  to  enable 
financial institutions to set up split accounting units and to 
offer companies operating in FTZs innovative financing and 
investment solutions. The successful deal is a testament of 
our commitment to providing more convenient and flexible 
financing options for our clients.During the year, we remained focused on providing effective 
products and services and on improving our efficiency in 
service of our clients. This enabled us to grow our revenue 
by more than 50 per cent year on year.Transaction Banking
In 2017, we continued to invest in our product capabilities in 
the areas of cash management, trade finance and financial 
supply chain management to provide our clients with end-
to-end solutions that meet their changing business needs 
and to help grow their businesses.We also enhanced UOB Business Internet Banking Plus and 
launched the UOB Virtual Account solution. In addition, we 
expanded our suite of financial supply chain management 
solutions to assist our clients and their strategic suppliers 
and distributors in improving their liquidity management. For 
our Financial Institutions (FI) clients, we launched forfaiting 
solutions to support their trade financing business.In  2017,  we  achieved  revenue  growth  of  15  per  cent  over 
the previous year, attributed to the significant 49 per cent 
increase in our total trade income, including FI trade. We 
also recorded a 31 per cent increase in our current account 
deposit balance.Our strong commitment to providing clients with effective 
transaction banking solutions for their businesses is reflected 
in the industry accolades we receive. These included the 
Highly Commended - Best SWIFT Solution award at the Adam 
Smith Awards Asia by Treasury Today received in recognition 
of  the  global  cash  management  solution  we  provided  to 
Samsung High-Tech Electro-Mechanics (Tianjin) Co Ltd.UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|31管理层报告
2017 in Review环球金融2017 年，我们与机构银行部密切合作，协助客户管理在业务扩展过
程中面临的外汇、利率、大宗商品的市场风险，深得企业客户的信任。大华银行（中国）针对客户不断变化的需求，持续创新金融解决方案，
向企业推出人民币利率互换 + 外汇远期锁汇的套期保值方案，帮助企
业客户固定融资成本。另外，我行 2017 年大宗商品衍生品交易量达 27 亿美元，较上一年同
比增长 19%，为更多企业提供个性化产品，帮助其管理现货风险。贵金属交易方面，2017 年我们积极参与“上海金”交易，询价交易量
较上年同期增长 120%，白银交易量达 174 吨。此外，大华银行（中国）
自贸区支行以国际会员身份加入上海黄金交易所国际板，进一步拓
展了国内实物黄金进口方式与渠道，更加及时高效地为国内市场补充
流动性。此外，我们凭借优秀的外汇交易和服务能力，获得中国外汇交易中心
四项大奖，包括连续第四年被评为唯一的“最佳新加坡元直接交易做
市机构”，连续第二年获得“最佳会员奖”，“最佳标准化外汇产品
会员奖”及“最佳远掉会员奖”。随着交易能力不断提升，我们不仅
为境内外汇市场流动性做出贡献，同时更好地满足了客户对外汇产品
的需求。Global Markets
In 2017, we continued to work closely with our Wholesale 
Banking colleagues to help our corporate  clients manage 
market risks with solutions in foreign exchange, interest rates 
and commodities.We  enhanced  our  product  capabilities  and  offered 
customised financial solutions, such as an interest rate swap 
and foreign exchange forward, to help clients’ control their 
financing costs and to meet their hedging needs.During the year, we also focused on providing customised 
commodity derivatives to help our clients manage spot risks. 
This helped to contribute to a 19 per cent increase year on 
year  in  total  commodity  trade  volume  in  2017  to  US$2.7 
billion.In  2017,  we  were  an  active  participant  in  the  trading  of 
precious metals on the Shanghai Gold Exchange, posting a 
120 per cent increase in trade volume in the price inquiry 
market, while our trade volume in the silver market reached 
174 metric tonnes. Our Shanghai FTZ Sub-branch became a 
member of Shanghai Gold Exchange’s International Board, 
which enabled us to expand our channels for the import of 
physical gold and in turn, to assist in increasing the liquidity 
in the domestic gold market.We received four awards from China Foreign Exchange Trade 
System (CFETS) in recognition of our trading services and 
excellence. We were the only bank named the Best SGD/
CNY Direct Market Maker for the fourth consecutive year 
and  the  Best  Member  for  the  second  year.  We  also  won 
the Best Standardised FX Product Member award and Best 
Forward/Swap Member award. As we enhance our trading 
capabilities to meet our clients’ financing needs, we also 
contribute towards the liquidity of the on-shore FX market.32|大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告人才2017 年，我们成功地推出了全新的员工价值主张“UOB+you”，充
分表达了银行注重员工专业与个性化培养、关心员工身心发展，并
鼓励员工大胆变通的人才发展理念。员工价值主张的推出是对我们
企业诚信、进取、齐心和担当几大价值观的重要诠释，也是银行对
全体员工的承诺。我们也推出一系列弹性工作方案，员工关爱和福
利措施，培训及个人发展课程以及嘉奖项目，以践行这一员工价值
主张。关爱员工
在关爱员工方面，我们在年中推出了一系列弹性工作方案，以帮助
员工达到工作和生活的和谐状态。这些举措包括错峰上班、居家办
公及“家庭关爱假”；员工还可以享受弹性两小时，即每月有一天
可以提早下班两小时，处理重要个人事务。关注个人和职业发展
在关注员工“成长”方面， 2017 年，我们除了不断完善现有的培训体
系，更倾力开展了几个新的重要项目。“大中华区领导力发展项目”是首次建立的一个大中华区统一的人
才培养平台。它充分运用两岸三地的资源，通过顶尖商学院培训、
导师制度、辩论竞赛、主题分享、个人实践等各种形式，发展银行
未来所需的人才；“大中华区跨地域人才轮岗项目”积极推动了两
岸三地的人才流动、促进业务合作交流。2017 年，该平台已培训了
54 名两岸三地人才，同时已有八位员工率先参与人才轮岗项目。Colleagues
With people critical to the success of our long-term business 
strategy,  in  2017  we  launched  UOB+you,  an  integrated 
approach  to  attracting,  to  engaging  and  to  retaining  the 
best talent. Our distinctive employee value proposition is 
built  upon  our  values  of  being  Honourable,  Enterprising, 
United and Committed. UOB+you captures the essence of 
UOB’s employment experience and is supported by a wide 
range of programmes that cover flexible work arrangements, 
health and wellness, employee welfare benefits, training and 
development courses and recognition programmes.Caring for Our Colleagues
In caring for the well-being of our colleagues, we offer a 
range of benefits to encourage eligible permanent employees 
to achieve better work-life harmony.These benefits include 
staggered work hours, Flexi  2  – an initiative that enables 
our colleagues to end work two hours earlier once a month 
to attend to important personal matters, work from home 
options and family care leave.Empowering the Personal and Professional Development 
of Our People
To nurture the growth of more talents, we expanded our 
existing  training  curricula  and  introduced  new  learning 
programmes.One  such  programme  is  the  Greater  China  Leadership 
Academy (GCLA), an incubator launched in 2017 to develop 
outstanding performers from our offices in mainland China, 
Hong  Kong  and  Taiwan.  The  GCLA  provides  our  high-
performing colleagues with various learning opportunities 
such as training courses at top business schools, mentorship 
and  peer  learning,  debate  competitions  and  experience 
sharing sessions to deepen their leadership skills. We also 
launched  the  Greater  China  Talent  Rotation  Programme 
which  offers  opportunities  for  our  colleagues  to  gain 
valuable exposure and experience across UOB Greater China 
offices. In 2017, 54 employees completed their training at the 
GCLA and eight employees participated in the job rotation 
programme.UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|33管理层报告
2017 in Review此外我们推出的大华中国成长俱乐部 (Growth Club)，通过在银行各
个部门各个层面开展每月分享，积极营造学习文化，帮助每个员工
获得成长。2017 年第四季度，我们又推出了“大华微学堂”，通过短视频形式，
传授计算机、高效工作习惯及商务礼仪等技能，让员工可以通过企
业微信，利用碎片时间进行课程学习，提升自我。鼓励员工追求卓越
我们在企业内不断努力，建立以大华银行价值观为基础的企业文化。
2017 年，我们也举办了表彰银行内部卓越成就的年度奖项“大华荣
耀奖”。该系列奖项旨在鼓励和认可制定创新方案、提升业务效率
和在银行发展路程上作出杰出贡献的团队与个人。最终有 14 个大中华区项目团队脱颖而出，分获了中国区的“大华荣
耀奖”。同时 21 位在大华银行（中国）服务超过十年的员工获得了
“年度长期贡献奖”。图片说明：大华银行大中华区行政总裁叶杨诗明女士和大华银行（中国）行
长符懋赞先生在“大华荣耀奖”大中华区颁奖典礼上为获奖员工颁奖。Mrs Christine Ip, UOB Greater China CEO and Mr Peter Foo, UOB (China) President 
and CEO, presented the awards at UOB Greater China Honours Awards ceremony.During the year, we also launched the Growth Club to foster 
a learning culture and to encourage our colleagues to share 
ideas and experiences with one another during monthly club 
activities at each function or branch.To  enable  our  colleagues  to  take  ownership  of  their 
professional and personal growth, in the fourth quarter of 
2017, we launched We-Course, which is a suite of WeChat-
based  courses  conducted  in  short  videos  on  topics  such 
as computer skills, working habits and business etiquette. 
Our colleagues can access our enterprise WeChat account 
anytime, anywhere to participate in the courses in which 
they are interested.Encouraging Our People to Make a Positive Difference
Stepping  up  our  efforts  to  nurture  and  to  maintain  an 
organisational culture based on our values, we launched the 
UOB Honours programme in 2017 to recognise outstanding 
individuals and teams who developed innovative solutions, 
increased  productivity  or  demonstrated  long-term 
commitment to the Bank.Fourteen  teams  from  Greater  China  received  the  UOB 
Honours Country Awards at the inaugural awards ceremony. 
In addition, 21 long-serving colleagues, who have been with 
the Bank for more than 10 years received a Dedication Award.34|大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告最佳雇主之选
2017 年，大华银行（中国）再次荣膺 “中国最佳雇主”和“中国典
范雇主”全国百强的两项殊荣。这是大华银行（中国）连续第二年
位列“中国最佳雇主”和“中国典范雇主”双料百强，我行也是今
年唯一一家连获此两项人力资源奖的外资银行。“中国最佳雇主”由智联招聘联合北京大学企业社会责任与雇主品
牌传播研究中心共同发起。“中国典范雇主”由前程无忧在 2008
年发起，过去十年间，已成为中国人力资源管理领域的一大权威奖
项。大华银行（中国）还荣获智联招聘授予的“最具企业社会责任雇主
奖”与前程无忧授予“人力资源战略典范奖”两个单项奖，以褒奖
我行在人力资源管理和公益慈善领域的杰出表现。图片说明：大华银行大中华区人力资源主管洪晓燕女士出席 2017 中国最佳雇
主颁奖典礼。Ms Amy Hong, Head of Human Resources for UOB Greater China at the China’s 
Best Employer Awards ceremonyAn Employer of Choice
UOB  (China)  was  listed  among  the  top  100  China’s  Best 
Employers and Employers of Excellence in 2017. This was the 
second consecutive year that UOB (China) has won these 
awards and the Bank was the only foreign bank in China to 
receive these two top human resources (HR) awards.The  China’s  Best  Employer  Award  recognises  companies 
that  serve  as  role  models  in  driving  best  HR  practices  in 
the country. It  was launched by Zhaopin in collaboration 
with Peking University's Social Survey Research Centre. The 
Employer Excellence of China Award was launched by 51job 
in 2008. Over the past decade, this award has become one of 
the most prestigious HR awards.In  addition,  UOB  (China)  received  the  Best  Employer  in 
Corporate Social Responsibility award from Zhaopin for our 
ongoing commitment to giving back to the community and 
the Excellence in HR Management Strategy Award from 51job 
for our outstanding people-focused strategy.UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|35管理层报告
2017 in Review科技与营运2017 年，我们持续专注于系统建设升级，以优化我们的分行和电子
化银行服务及操作，旨在不断提升客户体验，同时保证系统的安全性。作为一贯致力提升的方向，我们与个人金融服务部协作，在直销银
行手机平台上积极推进在线开户申请流程。优化后的流程，使得客
户可以通过手机开立二类账户，减少了客户业务办理的等候时间。我们还升级了监管报告系统，以符合各级监管要求。例如我们依据
银监会的要求升级了电信诈骗风险交易事件管理平台，通过管理平
台与最高法院及银监会建立连接。我们还搭建了银行卡海外交易报
告系统，依据国家外汇管理局的要求，每日报送银行卡海外交易。Technology and Operations
In  2017,  we  continued  to  harness  technology  to  improve 
our branch and digital banking services and operations, to 
enhance the customer experience and to play our part in 
ensuring the safety and security of the financial system.As  part  of  our  continuous  improvement  programme,  we 
worked  with  Personal  Financial  Services  to  enhance  the 
online account application process within our Direct Banking 
mobile application. As a result, we improved the workflow 
process  to  make  it  faster  for  customers  to  open  type-II 
accounts through their mobile phone.We  also  updated  several  reporting  systems,  ensuring 
compliance with new regulatory requirements. For example, 
we upgraded our Telecommunications Anti- Fraud system 
(TAS)  to  comply  with  the  China  Banking  Regulatory 
Commission’s (CBRC) requirement for TAS connection to the 
High Courts and CBRC. We also launched a Card Overseas 
Transaction  Reporting  system  to  comply  with  the  State 
Administration of Foreign Exchange’s requirement for daily 
reporting on bank card overseas transactions.36|大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告图片说明 : 大华银行（中国）多地同时为爱开跑，义卖现场同步进行。社区
通过艺术、儿童和教育，连接社区
造福社会、回馈社区是我行一贯坚持的宗旨。大华银行自进入中国
以来，专注履行在艺术、儿童以及教育三大领域的企业社会责任。大华银行通过标志性公益项目“爱心公益跑 / 行”，募集爱心善款。
截至 2017，我们已连续六年在中国举行这一年度公益项目。2017 年
近 1,600 名大华银行（中国）的员工及其家人，以运动、公益捐赠、
义卖等多样形式参与此次活动，筹得善款人民币 38 万余元，相较去
年增长 78%。善款已通过大华银行（中国）长期合作公益机构——新叶公益，继
续用于中国西部山区与儿童、教育和艺术相关的项目，含我们的校
服捐赠和助鞋计划以及大华银行艺术奖学金，有超过 1,680 名学生
因此受益。1Keeping the good going across China at our 2017 UOB Heartbeat Run/Walk
Community
Connecting  Communities  through  Art,  Children  and 
Education
Giving  back  to  the  community  in  which  we  operate 
is  fundamental  to  us.  We  focus  our  corporate  social 
responsibility (CSR) efforts on three areas which we believe 
are  essential  for  the  quality  and  progress  of  society:  art, 
children and education.The UOB Heartbeat Run/Walk is UOB Group’s annual flagship 
event to raise funds for a good cause. In China, 2017 was the 
sixth consecutive year we have held the event. About 1,600 
of our colleagues and their family members came together 
to support children from less privileged backgrounds through 
sports, donations and charity sales. In 2017, we raised more 
than RMB380,000, 78 per cent more than a year ago.The  funds  raised  were  donated  to  our  long-time  partner 
YesKids, a Nanjing-based organisation that aims to create 
equal opportunities for children from rural communities. The 
money we raised was used to sponsor new school uniforms 
and  to  improve  the  school  facilities  for  less  privileged 
children in remote villages in China. Part of the funds raised 
was also used to sponsor the UOB (China) Art Scholarship 
which  enables  students  to  deepen  their  appreciation  of 
traditional  art  and  craft  skills.  In  2017,  1,680  students  in 
Sichuan  and  Yunnan  provinces  benefitted  from  different 
programmes  supported  by  the  funds  raised  by  our  UOB 
Heartbeat Run/Walk.1
 新叶公益是一群年轻的大学生志愿者以及城市白领于 2013 年在南京正式注
册的一个公益组织，致力于改善贫困乡村和城市儿童的受教育环境，促进孩
子们健康成长，为他们获得个人发展创造机会。UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|37管理层报告
2017 in Review大华银行（中国）在 2017 年 5 月与第一财经公益基金会联合推出“UOB
带我爱世界”小叮当的放映室公益教育在线课程项目。项目内容引入
与目前我国教学大纲接轨的科学、文化课程，以及与生活相关的简单
金融常识课程。山区的孩子们通过学习在线课程，收获知识、感受世界。项目课程
分为专业课程和志愿者课程。其中志愿者课程由公开招募的个人及
企业志愿者，以及多位大华银行（中国）员工志愿者，根据自己的
兴趣、特长并结合由专业机构设定的课程表来报名，并在接受培训
后成为志愿者讲师。第一季课程已顺利结束。借助互联网，项目为
云南省怒江地区旧乃山完小和平安寨完小两所小学近 500 名学生提
供了共 24 类内容的在线课程。我行开展公益项目的同时也积极鼓励员工志愿者参与公益活动。
2017 年大华银行（中国）员工为各类公益活动贡献了约 3,300 个小时。自本地化十年间，我们已通过多项在华公益活动。筹得善款超过 1,200
万元人民币，将其用于灾后重建、医疗改善、并支持偏远地区孩子
的教育和艺术发展。截至 2017 年，已有超过 5,000 人次的儿童，因
我们的项目而受益。2017 年公益创新峰会特授予大华银行（中国）企业社会责任奖，以
认可我行在企业社会责任领域所作出的不懈努力和贡献。图片说明：大华银行（中国）与第一财经公益基金会联合启动“UOB 带我爱
世界”小叮当的放映室公益教育在线课程项目。UOB (China) worked hand in hand with Yicai Foundation to launch the UOB 
Brings The World To Me programme for children in remote areas of Yunnan.In May 2017, we collaborated with Yicai Foundation to launch 
the UOB Brings The World To Me programme, which aims to 
provide children in the remote mountainous areas of Yunnan 
province with access to online courses on a range of subjects 
such as science, culture and basic financial knowledge.Under the joint programme, the children are able to learn 
more  about  the  world  beyond  their  local  community.  To 
overcome geographic barriers, children study through live 
and pre-recorded sessions conducted by volunteer teachers. 
These sessions are projected onto television screens donated 
to their schools through the Yicai Foundation. In 2017, many 
of our colleagues, signed up as volunteer teachers for this 
programme. About 500 children at Ping’An Village Primary 
School and Jiunai Mountain Primary School completed 24 
online courses.Every year, our colleagues participate actively in the Bank’s 
CSR initiatives. In 2017, our colleagues volunteered about 
3,300 hours of their time.Since  the  inauguration  of  UOB  (China)  in  2008,  we  have 
helped  more  than  5,000  children  and  raised  more  than 
RMB 1.2 million in support of community and post-disaster 
construction initiatives in China.In recognition of our commitment to the community, we 
received a CSR award at the Philanthropy Innovation Summit 
2017.38|大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告图片说明：大华银行（中国）志愿者第三度回访四川省汉源县片马彝族乡中
心小学，并给当地学生带来温暖的新鞋子。The children at Central Primary School in Pian Ma Yi Minority Village are spurred 
to put their best foot forward in the new academic year upon receiving gifts of 
new shoes from the UOB (China) volunteers.增强金融教育，保护消费者权益
2017 年我行在客户权益保护工作上迈出了新的步伐，不仅完成了银
行业客户权益保护的日常工作，同时结合我行诚信、进取、齐心和
担当这四大价值观，建立了独具大华银行特色的以客户为中心的消
费者权益保护文化。我行非常重视客户权益保护工作中的客户宣传和教育工作。在全国
11 个城市共举办了近 120 场客户权益保护宣传活动，传授如何识别
金融诈骗、非法集资，保护个人信息等金融知识。另外，我行积极
开拓多渠道的客户权益保护宣传工作，于 2017 年 10 月走入五所大
学校园，向大学生宣传防范电信网络诈骗及非法校园网络贷款等内
容。同时我行在 2017 年推出了《服务主题月》，以每月一主题的视频形
式面向全体员工宣传积极、乐观的服务理念，以及社会热点话题，
涵盖防范电信网络诈骗、公平交易、保护客户个人信息等内容，以
帮助他们更好地向客户普及该类信息。员工服务交流研讨会也是我行今年推出的又一重点服务管理项目。
2017 年，我行在全国 12 个城市，共举办 12 场研讨会。参与员工通
过该平台交流服务心得、互相学习服务经验，体会我行消费者权益
保护文化和精神。此外，我行也在该项目中进行投诉应急预案的桌
面演练，帮助员工从容面对突发事件。Enhancing  Consumer  Awareness  Through  Financial 
Education
Treating  our  customers  fairly  and  providing  them  with 
appropriate solutions are key to UOB (China)’s commitment 
to do what is right for them. We also place great emphasis 
on consumer education and protection.In  2017,  we  continued  to  build  on  our  customer-centric 
approach, whose foundation is based upon our values of 
being  Honourable,  Enterprising,  United  and  Committed. 
We hosted close to 120 educational events across 11 cities, 
sharing tips with consumers on how to recognise illegal fund 
raising, prevent financial scams and protect personal data. 
We also organised sessions for students from five universities 
to help them to identify and to protect themselves from 
telecommunications scams and illegal campus loans.We  also  launched  a  monthly  Service  Theme  programme 
for  our  employees  to  equip  them  with  knowledge  and 
skills  to  be  able  to  advise  our  customers  on  fair  dealing, 
protecting  customer  data  and  privacy  and  preventing 
telecommunication and internet scams.Another  key  service  enhancement  programme  launched 
in 2017 was our More and More workshop. We organised 
12  workshops  at  our  branches  across  the  country  for  our 
colleagues to share their experiences and best practices on 
consumer protection and service excellence. We also trained 
our  colleagues  in  attending  to  customer  complaints  and 
emergencies through simulations at the workshops.UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|39公司治理
Corporate Governance大华银行（中国）始终坚持最高的公司治理标准并就此严格遵守《中
华人民共和国公司法》、《中华人民共和国商业银行法》、《中华
人民共和国外资银行管理条例》及其实施细则等相关监管要求。我行董事会及其下设专业委员会、监事、高级管理层按照相关法律
法规和《大华银行（中国）有限公司章程》（以下简称《公司章程》）
所赋予的职责，依法独立履行各自的权利与义务。关于董事与董事会董事会现有六名董事，其中独立董事两名。董事会的人数、构成符
合监管要求和《公司章程》的规定。现任董事会成员名单及其职务
如下：UOB  (China)  is  committed  to  upholding  good  corporate 
governance and is guided by the following in this regard:
a)    the People’s Republic of China (PRC) Company Law;
b)    the PRC Commercial Bank Law;
c)    the PRC Regulations on Administration of Foreign-funded
       Banks and the Rules for Implementing the PRC Regulations 
       on Administration of Foreign-funded Banks; and
d)   other relevant regulatory requirements.The  Board  of  Directors  (Board),  Board  Committees, 
the  Supervisors  and  Senior  Management  perform  their 
respective  duties  according  to  the  laws  and  regulations 
of the country and the provisions in the Bank’s Articles of 
Association.Board of Directors
The  current  Board  comprises  six  members,  two  of  whom 
are  independent  directors.  The  size  and  composition  of 
the  Board  comply  with  regulatory  requirements  and  the 
provisions  in  the  Bank’s  Articles  of  Association.  The  six 
Board members are:姓名
Name性别
Gender年龄
Age职务
Position本届任期
Current Term of Office黄一宗
Wee Ee Cheong符懋赞
Peter Foo Moo Tan男
Male男
Male李振荣
Francis Lee Chin Yong男
Male叶杨诗明
Christine Ip刘二飞
Liu Erh Fei曾之杰
Zeng Zhi Jie女
Female男
Male男
Male655564545849董事长/非执行非独立董事
Chairman/Non-executive and non-independent director2016年9月17日至2019年9月16日
From 17 September 2016 to 16 September 2019执行非独立董事(行长兼首席执行官)
Executive (President and CEO) and non-independent director2017年1月18日至2019年10月27日
From 18 January 2017 to 27 October 2019非执行非独立董事
Non-executive and non-independent director2016年12月27日至2019年12月26日
From 27 December 2016 to 26 December 2019非执行非独立董事
Non-executive and non-independent director2017年7月12日至2020年7月11日
From 12 July 2017 to 11 July 2020独立非执行董事
Non-executive and independent director2017年1月20日至2019年11月15日
From 20 January 2017 to 15 November 2019独立非执行董事
Non-executive and independent director曾之杰先生自2016年10月26日起继续留任，直
至找到合适的继任者
From 26 October 2016, until a new independent 
director is appointed to the Board40 大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告|董事会的主要职能如下：●  为银行指明战略方向，批准银行战略发展方案，批准银行的经营计划和年度预算；●  审核并监督银行的财务表现以及批准银行真实公允的财务决算方案；●  决定银行的资本负债结构；
●  设定股息分配方案以及宣告股息；
●  筹划董事会和高级管理层的继任事宜及银行的薪酬政策；
●  确保高效的管理团队；
●  批准银行的组织结构设置；
●  监督建立全面的、针对各种风险类型的风险管理政策、程序和基础设施(包括业务外包风险)；●  决定银行的风险结构并核准相关信贷审批限额和投资限额；
●  审核并监督银行的风险管理、内部审计和合规部门职能的履行，并确保对其资源配置的充分性；●  评价行长/ 首席执行官以及高级管理层的工作表现；
●  制订适当的政策及程序以避免为自己谋取不正当利益的情况或其它利益冲突的产生；●  审查并核准银行的有关关联交易的控制体系；
●  建立公司文化、价值观和道德标准；
●  审查银行的信息披露政策并对所披露信息的真实性、准确性和完整性负责；●  向股东报告；及
●  履行股东授予的其他职权和法律、法规以及银行章程要求的其他职权。董事会每年召开四次定期会议，并在需要时召开临时董事会议。根据银行章程的规定，董事会还可通过传签的方式做出决议。2017年，我行共召开董事会会议四次，会议均达到法定最低出席人数。2017年，我行董事会还通过传签的方式，做出了八项决议。会议的召集程序、出席人数、议事程序、表决程序、董事会决议的
作出程序及其内容等各方面均符合中华人民共和国有关法律法规和
《公司章程》的有关要求。所有董事会会议记录及传签决议由我行
董事会秘书保存。The main responsibilities of the Board are to:
•    provide strategic directions, approve strategic business initiatives,•and approve the business plans and annual budget;
review and monitor the financial performance of the Bank, and 
approve true and fair financial statements;•  determine an appropriate capital/debt structure;
• 
•  perform  succession  planning  for  the  Board  and  Seniorset dividend policy and declare dividends;Management and formulate the remuneration policy;approve the organisational structure;•  put in place an effective management team;
• 
•  oversee the establishment of comprehensive risk management 
policies, processes and infrastructure to manage various types 
of risk (including outsourcing risk);•  determine  the  risk  profile  of  the  Bank  and  approve  credit•discretionary limits and investment limits;
review and monitor the risk management, internal audit and 
compliance  functions  and  ensure  that  these  functions  are 
adequately resourced;•  evaluate the performance of the President and CEO and SeniorManagement;•• 
••  establish  appropriate  procedures  and  processes  to  avoid 
situations  that  may  give  rise  to  improper  personal  gains  or 
conflicts of interest;
review and approve the Bank’s system of controls relating to 
connected transactions;
set corporate culture, values and ethical standards;
review  the  Bank’s  information  disclosure  policy  and  be 
responsible for the authenticity, accuracy and integrity of the 
information disclosed;
report to the shareholder; and• 
•  exercise such other power as authorised by the shareholder 
and  perform  such  other  functions  as  required  by  the  laws, 
regulations and the Bank’s Articles of Association.The Board holds four scheduled meetings in a year. Additional 
meetings may be held whenever required.The Bank’s Articles of Association also provide for the Board 
to make decisions by way of circular resolutions.In 2017, the Board held four meetings. The quorum for each 
meeting was met.The Board passed eight resolutions by way of circulation in 
2017.The procedures for convening a Board meeting, the quorum 
required for constituting the meeting, the proceedings at 
the meeting, and the procedures for voting and passing of 
resolutions complied with the requirements of applicable PRC 
laws and regulations and the Bank’s Articles of Association. 
The minutes of all Board meetings and the circular resolutions 
are maintained properly by the Company Secretary.UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|41公司治理
Corporate Governance关于董事会下设专业委员会大华银行（中国） 董事会目前下设五个专业委员会，即：执行委员
会、关联交易控制委员会、审计委员会、提名及薪酬委员会和董事
会风险管理委员会 ( 自 2018 年 1 月 1 日起，原风险管理委员会更名
为董事会风险管理委员会 ) 。(1) 执行委员会
a.    委员会成员：黄一宗先生（主席）、符懋赞先生、李振荣先生、叶杨诗明女士。b.    执行委员会的主要职能如下：
●  管理银行的营运，包括制定内部制度、业务发展策略，监督银行业务计划的执行，批准相关的信贷额度；及●  处理除行长兼首席执行官及副行长以外的银行人力资源管理事项。c.   执行委员会至少每月召开一次会议，且可根据需要随时召开会议，
       以履行上述职责。2017 年，执行委员会召开会议 12 次。(2) 关联交易控制委员会a.   委员会成员：刘二飞先生（自2018年1月1日起担任主席）、曾
之杰先生、李振荣先生。作为继任计划的一部分，  刘二飞先
生自2018年1月1日起接替曾之杰先生担任关联交易控制委员
会主席，曾之杰先生继续担任关联交易控制委员会成员。b.    关联交易控制委员会的主要职能如下：
●  建立并执行关联交易管理制度；
●  管理关联交易并控制由此而生的风险；
●  审查一般关联交易；及
●  审核重大关联交易并提交董事会批准。c.     2017 年，关联交易控制委员共召开会议一次。Board Committees
The Board has delegated specific functions to five Board 
Committees,  namely  the  Executive  Committee  (EXCO), 
Connected  Transactions  Control  Committee  (CTCC), 
Audit  Committee  (AC),  Nominating  and  Remuneration 
Committee (NRC) and Board Risk Management Committee 
(BRMC)  (the  RMC  renamed  as  Board  Risk  Management 
Committee with effect from 1 January 2018).(1) Executive Committee
a.   The EXCO members are Mr Wee Ee Cheong (Chairman), Mr PeterFoo Moo Tan, Mr Francis Lee Chin Yong and Mrs Christine Ip.b.   The EXCO oversees the following matters:
•   the Bank’s business operations, including formulating internal 
policies and business strategies, monitoring the execution of 
business plans and approving relevant credit limits; and•   all human resource matters, except for those pertaining to thePresident and CEO and Deputy President.c.   The EXCO meets at least once a month and whenever requiredin the discharge of its functions.The EXCO held 12 meetings in 2017.(2)  Connected Transactions Control Committee
a.   The CTCC members are Mr Liu Erh Fei (Chairman with effect 
from 1 January 2018), Mr Zeng Zhi Jie and Mr Francis Lee Chin 
Yong. As part of the succession planning, on 1 January 2018, Mr 
Liu Erh Fei took over the CTCC Chairman in place of Mr Zeng Zhi 
Jie, who continues to serve as a member of the CTCC.b.   The CTCC’s main responsibilities are to:
•      establish and administer the system for managing connectedtransactions;•    manage connected transactions and control the risks from suchtransactions;•    examine non-material connected transactions; and
•     review and submit material connected transactions to the Boardfor approval.c.  The CTCC met once in 2017.42|大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告(3) 审计委员会a.    委员会成员：刘二飞先生  (  自2018年1月1日起担任主席  )、曾
之杰先生、李振荣先生、叶杨诗明女士。作为继任计划的一部
分，曾之杰先生于2018年1月1日停止担任审计委员会主席，但
仍继续担任审计委员会成员。b.   审计委员会的主要职能为审议 / 监督以下相关事宜：
●  财务报告，内部、外部审计计划及报告；
●  内部会计控制及重大内部控制的充分性；
●  内部及外部审计的范围及结果；
●  有关会计准则或会计实务的质量及重大变化；
●  内部审计资源的充分性；
●  内部审计调查的重大发现；
●  批准外部审计费用；及
●  外部审计机构及内部审计部门负责人的提名。c.    2017 年，审计委员会共召开会议四次。(4) 提名及薪酬委员会(3) Audit Committee
a.  The AC members are Mr Liu Erh Fei (Chairman with effect from 
1 January 2018), Mr Zeng Zhi Jie, Mr Francis Lee Chin Yong and 
Mrs Christine Ip.  As part of the succession planning, Mr Zeng 
Zhi Jie stepped down as the AC Chairman on 1 January 2018 but 
continues to serve as a member of the AC.b.  The AC’s main responsibilities are to review/oversee all matters••• 
•• 
• 
• 
•relating to:
financial statements, and internal and external audit plans and 
reports;
the  adequacy  of  internal  accounting  controls  and  material 
internal controls;
the scope and results of internal and external audits;
the quality of, and any significant change in, accounting policies 
or practices;
the adequacy of internal audit resources;
significant findings from internal audit investigations;
the approval of external auditor’s fees; and
the nomination of the external auditor and the head of the 
internal audit function.a.  委员会成员：曾之杰先生( 主席 )、黄一宗先生、李振荣先生、刘二飞先生。c.  The AC held four meetings in 2017.(4) Nominating and Remuneration Committee
a.  The  NRC  members  are  Mr  Zeng  Zhi  Jie  (Chairman),  Mr  WeeEe Cheong, Mr Francis Lee Chin Yong and Mr Liu Erh Fei.b.   提名及薪酬委员会的主要职能如下：
●  就董事会及其下属专业委员会推荐候选人；
●  设计董事、主要高级管理人员（包含行长兼首席执行官以及副行长）的薪酬结构并报董事会批准；及●  建立一套正规的机制以评价董事会的整体效率，董事会下设各委员会及董事的贡献以及行长兼首席执行官的表现。c.    2017 年，提名及薪酬委员会召开会议一次。•b.  The NRC’s main responsibilities are to:
•recommend nominees for appointment to the Board and Board 
Committees;
recommend a framework for the remuneration of directors and 
key  senior  executives  (including  the  President  and  CEO  and 
Deputy President) for the Board’s approval; and•  put  in  place  a  system  for  assessing  the  effectiveness  of  the 
Board as a whole, the contribution of each Board Committee 
and director, and the performance of the President and CEO.c.  The NRC met once in 2017.UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|43公司治理
Corporate Governance
(5) 董事会风险管理委员会a.   委员会成员：李振荣先生（主席）、曾之杰先生、叶杨诗明女士、刘二飞先生。b.   董事会风险管理委员会的主要职能如下：
●  审查银行的风险管理策略、政策和风险容忍度，并提交董事会批准；●  确保风险管理体系健康独立，及其建立和运作符合董事会批准的策略和政策；●  在识别、衡量、监督和控制各种风险的过程中，审查和评估银
行风险管理架构（包括框架、政策、方法、人力资源、程序、
信息、基础设施和系统）的充分性和有效性；●  审查管理层关于风险敞口、风险组合结构及其管理和风险监控的定期报告；及●  定期向董事会报告并提示董事会注意负面风险事件或趋势。c.    2017 年，董事会风险管理委员会共召开会议四次。关于监事大华银行（中国）现有监事两名，现任监事黄祖耀博士及副监事詹
道存教授均由股东委派。监事的委任符合监管要求和《公司章程》
的规定。监事的职权主要包括：
●  检查银行财务和财务报表；
●  监督董事、高级管理人员的行为，以确保银行审慎经营，并在必要时对董事、高级管理人员的不当行为予以纠正；●  维护银行、股东及其他利益相关者特别是存款人的合法权益；及●  法律、法规及银行章程规定的应由监事行使的其他职权和股东授予其行使的其他职权。2017 年，监事严格按照《中华人民共和国公司法》和《公司章程》
等规定，积极履行对董事会和高级管理层实施监督的职责。在履行
职责的过程中，监事接受并审阅有关本行经营及风险管理状况的常
规报告，对我行的经营情况、财务状况以及我行董事和高级管理人
员履行职责的合法合规性进行了有效地监督。44 大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告|(5) Board Risk Management Committee
a.  The BRMC members are Mr Francis Lee Chin Yong (Chairman),Mr Zeng Zhi Jie, Mrs Christine Ip and Mr Liu Erh Fei.b.  The BRMC’s main responsibilities are to:
•review and recommend risk management strategies, policies and 
risk tolerance of the Bank for the Board’s approval;•  oversee  the  establishment  and  operation  of  a  robust  and 
independent risk management system that is consistent with 
the strategies and policies approved by the Board;
review and assess the adequacy and effectiveness of the Bank’s 
risk management framework (including frameworks, policies, 
methodologies,  human  resources,  processes,  information, 
infrastructure  and  systems)  for  identifying,  measuring, 
monitoring and controlling various types of risks;
review  regular  management  reports  on  risk  exposures,  risk 
portfolio composition and the management and monitoring of 
such exposures and portfolio composition; and
report  to  the  Board  regularly  and  highlight  any  adverse  risk 
event or trend for the Board’s attention.•••c.  The BRMC held four meetings in 2017.Supervisors
The Bank has two Supervisors who were nominated by the 
shareholder and appointed in accordance with regulatory 
requirements and the Bank’s Articles of Association. They 
are Dr Wee Cho Yaw (Supervisor) and Prof Cham Tao Soon 
(Deputy Supervisor).The main responsibilities of the Supervisors include:
• 
•inspecting the accounts and financial statements of the Bank;
supervising the Board and Senior Management to ensure that 
the  Bank  is  run  in  a  prudent  manner,  and  taking  corrective 
actions where necessary;
safeguarding the lawful rights and interests of the Bank, the 
shareholder and other stakeholders, particularly the depositors; 
and••  exercising such other power and authority pursuant to the laws, 
regulations and the Bank’s Articles of Association, and as may be 
authorised by the shareholder.In 2017, the Supervisors duly discharged their responsibility 
of supervising the Board and Senior Management strictly 
in  accordance  with  relevant  requirements,  including  the 
provisions under the PRC Company Law and in the Bank’s 
Articles of Association. In discharging their responsibility, 
the Supervisors received and reviewed regular reports on 
the Bank’s operations and risk management, and conducted 
supervision  of  the  operations  and  financial  position  of 
the Bank and the performance of the Directors and Senior 
Management.独立董事履行职责情况2017 年度，我行设两名独立董事，分别为刘二飞先生和曾之杰先生。
其中，刘二飞先生同时担任董事会下设的关联交易控制委员会、审
计委员会主席，以及提名及薪酬委员会、 董事会风险管理委员会成
员。曾之杰先生同时担任董事会下设的提名及薪酬委员会主席，以
及关联交易控制委员会、审计委员会、董事会风险管理委员会成员。报告期内，两位独立董事均勤勉尽责地履行了董事义务，认真审议
了各项议案。两位独立董事为董事会、董事会下设专业委员会切实
履行决策和监督职能发挥了积极作用，维护了我行的整体利益以及
股东的合法权益。Performance of Independent Directors
There were two independent directors on the Board in 2017, 
namely Mr Liu Erh Fei and Mr Zeng Zhi Jie. Currently, Mr Liu 
Erh Fei is the Chairman of the CTCC and AC, as well as a 
member of the NRC and BRMC. Mr Zeng Zhi Jie is currently 
the Chairman of the NRC, as well as a member of the CTCC, 
AC and BRMC.For  the  year  under  review,  both  independent  directors 
discharged  their  duties  diligently  and  responsibly.  They 
contributed to  the decision-making and oversight by the 
Board and Board Committees and safeguarded the lawful 
rights and overall interests of the Bank and the shareholder.(1) 2017年独立董事出席董事会的情况(1)  Independent Directors’ Attendance at Board Meetings in 2017独立董事姓名
Name of Independent Director应参加
（次）
No. of Board Meetings 
Held出席
（次）
No. of Board Meetings 
Attended缺席
（次）
Absent with
Apologies刘二飞
Liu Erh Fei曾之杰
Zeng Zhi Jie444301备注
Remarks/因公务未能出席2017年11月22日
的董事会会议
Excused at Board meeting on 22 
November 2017 for other business 
matters(2) 独立董事对我行有关事项提出异议的情况
2017 年，独立董事均未对我行本年度的议案事项提出异议。监事及董事知情权银行监事及董事能自由与管理层进行沟通并获取银行信息。银行就
财务信息、风险管理、运营管理等事项向监事及董事提供全面及时
的报告以便其做出进一步的会议讨论。银行监事及董事有权与公司
秘书进行沟通，从而了解最新的法规变化及公司治理方面的实施情
况。监事及董事在履行其职责时可以根据需要独立寻求专业意见，
由此产生的费用，将由银行承担。(2) Dissent of Independent Directors
In 2017, Management did not give cause for the independent 
directors to record their dissent on any matter.Supervisors’ and Directors’ Access to Information
The  Supervisors  and  directors  have  unfettered  access  to 
information  and  Management,  and  receive  timely  and 
comprehensive financial, risk management and operational 
reports to facilitate informed discussions during meetings. 
They  also  have  access  to  the  Company  Secretary  whose 
responsibilities include advising the Supervisors and directors 
on  regulatory  changes  and  best  practices  in  corporate 
governance.  The  Supervisors  and  directors  may  seek 
independent professional advice in the course of discharging 
their duties at the Bank’s expense.UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|45公司治理
Corporate Governance
高级管理层成员构成 / Senior Management Structure姓名
Name职务 
Position性别
Sex出生年份 
Year of 
Birth任期起始
Assignment
Commencement最高学历 
Highest Academic Degree相关经验年限 
Relevant Years
of Experience行长兼首席执行官
President and CEO男
Male19622016年12月
Dec 2016副行长
Alternate Country CEO
兼北区区域主管 
North Regional Head 
兼北京分行行长
General Manager of Beijing Branch男
Male1969首席风险控制官
Chief Risk Officer女
Female19702015年7月
Jul 2015
2017年5月
May 2017
2010年8月
Aug 20102016年1月
Jan 2016渠道及数字化部主管
Head, Channels and Digitalisation男
Male19672014年6月
Jun 2014首席技术官
Chief Information Officer企业银行部主管
Head, Corporate Banking个人金融服务部主管
Head, Personal Financial Services环球金融部主管
Head, Global Markets企业银行信贷部主管
Head, Corporate Credit商业银行信贷部主管
Head, Commercial Credit男
Male女
Female男
Male男
Male男
Male男
Male1976197519751973195819702016年6月
Jun 20162015年3月
Mar 20152015年10月
Oct 20152016年10月
Oct 20162008年9月
Sep 20082014年7月
Jul 2014个人信贷部主管
Head, Retail Credit女
Female19712016年12月
Dec 2016人力资源部主管
Head, Human Resources女
Female19772007年12月
Dec 2007内部审计部主管
Head, Internal Audit女
Female19722016年1月
Jan 2016新加坡国立大学房地产管理学士荣誉学位
Bachelor of Science, Estate Management, Honours
National University of Singapore
特许金融分析师 
Chartered Financial Analyst新加坡国立大学工商管理学士
Bachelor of Business Administration 
National University of Singapore新加坡南洋理工大学工商管理硕士
Master of Business Administration
Nanyang Technological University乔治华盛顿大学
项目领导、管理及沟通；项目经理的合同管理课程
Project Leadership, Management and Communications 
Contracting for Project Managers
The George Washington University新加坡国立大学工商管理学士荣誉学位
Bachelor of Business Administration, Honours
National University of Singapore香港中文大学工商管理硕士
Master of Business Administration
The Chinese University of Hong Kong新加坡南洋理工大学会计学士荣誉学位
Bachelor of Accountancy, Honours
Nanyang Technological University墨尔本大学应用金融硕士
Master of Applied Finance 
The University of Melbourne新西兰大学商学士
Bachelor of Commerce 
University of Otago, New Zealand卡耐基梅隆大学理学学士学位
Bachelor of Science
Carnegie Mellon University华东理工大学国际企业管理学士
Bachelor of International Business Management 
East China University of Science and Technology复旦大学工商管理硕士
Master of Business Administration
Fudan University美国纽约州立水牛城大学工商管理硕士
Master of Corporate Finance and Accounting
State University of New York at Buffalo女
Female男
Male男
Male1974197019702007年12月
Dec 20072017年8月
Aug 20172011年5月
May 2011复旦大学工商管理硕士
Master of Business Administration 
Fudan University
复旦大学金融学博士
Doctor of Finance 
Fudan University
新加坡国立大学经济学学士
Bachelor of Science 
National University of Singapore符懋赞
FOO Moo Tan 
Peter杨国林
YEONG Kok Leng
Vincent刘可
LIU Ke
Jenny卢绍康
LO Siu-Hong
Rodney陈垙荣
TAN Kong Weng
Steven吴鹏
WU Peng
Tina林培丰
LIM Pei Hong
Winston杨瑞琪
YANG Rui Qi
Mark郑伟仁
TEH Wee Jin杨健顺
YEOH Kian Soon 
Benedict王红霞
WANG Hong Xia 
Carol洪晓燕
HONG Xiao Yan
Amy张飒
ZHANG Sa
Sarah王媛
WANG Yuan
Eliza法律与秘书部主管
Head, Legal and Secretariat熊大永
XIONG Da Yong合规部主管
Head, Compliance林楚强
LIM Chor Khiang交易银行业务部主管
Head, Transaction Banking46 大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告|30242224161516163622242024211422跨国企业银行部主管
Head, Multinational Corporate男
Male19712014年9月
Sep 2014私人银行部
Head, Private Banking女
Female19702017年7月
Jul 2017上海财经大学-美国韦伯斯特大学工商管理硕士 
Master of Business Administration 
Shanghai University of Finance and Economics and 
Webster University加利福尼亚州立大学经济学硕士
Master of Finance
California State University东区区域主管
East Regional Head
兼任上海分行行长
General Manager of Shanghai Branch南区区域主管 
South Regional Head 
兼任深圳分行行长
General Manager of Shenzhen 
Branch男
Male男
Male男
Male19732014年10月
Oct 2014美国南阿拉巴马州大学理学士
Bachelor of Science 
University of South Alabama197519742017年4月
Apr 20172015年3月
Mar 2015伦敦大学理学士荣誉学位
Bachelor of Science, Honours 
University of London中国文化大学会计学学士
Bachelor of Accounting
Chinese Culture University, Taiwan黄魁彬
HUANG Kuei Ping
Patrick广州分行行长
General Manager of Guangzhou 
Branch黄莹
HUANG Ying厦门分行行长
General Manager of Xiamen Branch女
Female19722011年9月
Sep 2011张晓
ZHANG Xiao
Andy戴晓虹
DAI Xiao Hong
Sherrie林联坚
LIM Lian Kian卓益丰
TOK Aik Hong
Lawrence马健强
MA Jian Qiang
Gosen胡维
HU Wei 
Tony石新宇
SHI Xin Yu
Edward叶艳
YE Yan 
Beicy吴端祝
GOH Tuan Chiok蔡福耀
CHUA Hock Yew
Alexander黄婷
HUANG Ting
Taylor蔡泽铭
SUA Tzer Ming杜艳
DU Yan
Cherry许杰
XU Jie 
Sting沈阳分行行长
General Manager of Shenyang Branch男
Male西区区域主管 
West Regional Head 
兼任成都分行行长
General Manager of Chengdu Branch男
Male天津分行行长
General Manager of Tianjin Branch男
Male1971197819672016年4月
Apr 20162015年2月
Feb 20152014年12月
Dec 2014杭州分行行长
General Manager of Hangzhou Branch女
Female19712012年2月
Feb 2012重庆分行行长
General Manager of Chongqing 
Branch男
Male苏州分行行长
General Manager of Suzhou Branch男
Male昆明分行行长
General Manager of Kunming Branch女
Female上海自贸试验区支行行长 
Branch Manager of Shanghai
Pilot Free Trade Zone Sub-Branch男
Male19721972198619812014年5月
May 20142015年2月
Feb  20152017年8月
Aug 20172015年7月
Jul 2015上海静安支行行长
Branch Manager of Jingan 
Sub-Branch女
Female19752016年5月
May 2016北京东城支行行长
Branch Manager of Dongcheng 
Sub-Branch男
Male李胜莲
LI Sheng Lian北京燕莎中心支行行长
Branch Manager of Lufthansa Centre 
Sub-Branch女
Female197919822012年5月
May 20122017年6月
Jun 2017英国加的夫大学商学院国际经济、金融与银行学硕士
Master of Science in International Economics Banking 
and Finance 
Cardiff University, U.K.巴拉瑞特大学工商管理学硕士
Master of Business Administration 
University of Ballarat法国国立科学技术与管理学院工商管理硕士
Master of Business Administration
Conservatoire National des Arts et Métiers南开大学国际经济研究所经济学硕士
Master of Economics, International Economic Institute 
Nan Kai University哈尔滨工程大学电子工程学士
Bachelor of Electrical Engineer 
Harbin Engineering University新加坡国立大学工商管理学士
Bachelor of Business Administration
National University of Singapore加拿大多伦多大学经济学学士荣誉学位
Bachelor of Commerce, Honours
University of Toronto, Canada北京大学汇丰商学院经济学硕士
Master of Economics, HSBC Business School
Peking University澳大利亚科廷科技大学经济与金融学士
Bachelor of Commerce
Curtin University of Technology, Australia比利时联合商学院高级工商管理硕士
Master of Business Administration
United Business Institutes澳大利亚阳光海岸大学工商管理硕士
Master of Business Administration
University of Sunshine Coast, Australia英国拉夫堡大学银行与金融硕士
Master of Banking and Finance
Loughborough University242021171723221724232020812151110UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|47公司治理
Corporate Governance大华银行（中国）薪酬管理制度
薪酬管理制度基本宗旨
大华银行（中国）的薪酬管理制度旨在建立和规范一个薪酬框架和
付薪原则，用于吸引、激励和保留人才，并结合我行的风险管控制
度建立长期有效的绩效奖励机制，倡导“酬功给效”的奖惩文化。整体薪酬框架
我们将员工各种薪酬加总起来，形成一个整体的计划， 我们称之为
“整体薪酬”。它由两大部分构成，即固定薪酬和可变薪酬。其中可变薪酬是根据当年集团及大华银行（中国）的经营业绩考核
结果来确定，同时体现充足的各类风险与成本抵扣和银行可持续发
展的激励约束要求。对于高级管理人员以及对风险有重要影响岗位
上的员工，其可变薪酬严格按照集团相关递延政策执行，以达成本
地监管机构所要求达到的公司治理和风险管控目的。董事、监事和高级管理人员薪酬
2017 年度我行董事、监事津贴和高级管理人员的薪酬总额为人民币 
43,977,319 元。UOB (China) Remuneration Policy
Total Compensation Principle
The purpose of UOB (China) remuneration policy develops 
a  total  compensation  framework  and  pay  approaches,  to 
attract, motivate and retain talent, while building up a long-
term  effective  performance  management  policy  in  align 
with the Bank’s internal risk control policy to promote the 
Rewarding You (pay-for-performance) culture.Total Compensation Framework
We take a holistic approach to design employee’s compensation, 
providing a complete pay package called “total compensation”. 
Total compensation is made up of  two  main  components, 
namely fixed pay and variable pay.The variable pay is determined upon the financial performance 
of both UOB Group and UOB (China), which take considerations 
of various risk & cost factors as well as incentives needed to 
drive sustainable growth. For senior executives and material 
risk takers, their variable pay shall strictly follow the Group’s 
variable pay deferral policy, to meet corporate governance 
and risk management requirements set by local government 
authorities.Compensation  for  Directors,  Supervisors  and  Senior 
Management
For 2017, the allowance for Board Directors and Supervisors, 
and compensation for senior executives is RMB43,977,319.整体薪酬Total compensation固定薪酬
Fixed pay可变薪酬
Variable pay基本薪资
Base salary固定津贴Fixed allowances绩效奖金高管股票激励Performance bonusExecutive equity awards48 大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告|内部控制
大华银行 ( 中国 ) 依据中国的政策法规和监管要求并结合大华银行集
团的具体实践，逐步建立、完善适应银行业务发展的内部控制体系，
并确保其始终具备前瞻性和可实践性。我行董事会通过定期召开会议及相关内部委员会讨论，审阅各项风
险管理和分析报告、经营情况与预算执行情况报告和内部审计报
告。同时，结合同业经验交流等多种形式，全面评估银行内部控制
体系。我行现行的内部控制制度在改善内部控制环境方面体现了较好的完
整性、合理性和有效性，包括但不限于增强风险识别、监测和评估
能力、提高风险控制措施、完善信息交流与反馈机制、强化监督评
价与纠正机制。该内控体系能够对国家法律法规和银行规章制度的
贯彻执行提供合理保证。内部审计
我行设立了独立的审计监督机构——内部审计部。内部审计部直接
向董事会下设的审计委员会和大华银行集团审计部报告工作；在行
政层面上，内部审计部向我行行长兼首席执行官汇报工作。内部审计部的主要职责为提供独立及客观的内部审计服务和其他增
值服务，协助董事会和管理层履行其法律和管理职责，旨在促进我
行运营活动中内部控制和风险管理的合理性和有效性。内部审计部
依据其系统的、严格的方法论，评估我行内部财务控制、运营和合
规控制的有效性，同时改善我行风险管理、控制与治理流程的有效性，
从而帮助我行实现其经营和管理目标。内部审计部遵照中国银行业监督管理委员会《关于金融机构内部审
计的监管要求》，以及国际内部审计师协会的《准则与指引》履行
职责。每年度，内部审计部依据“风险导向”的审计方法制定审计
计划，并根据对被审计对象的固有风险、内控有效性的评估结果和
监管风险提示确定审计项目的优先次序以及审计范围。审计内容覆
盖总行和分支机构的业务发展和运营情况，以及信息系统基础架构
和应用程序的建设及运用情况。所有内部审计报告将被呈报至审计委员会。对于重大审计发现，内
部审计部将提示审计委员会予以关注，同时严密监督管理层针对内
部审计、外部审计以及监管机构所提出任何的需整改事项所需采取
的后续行动，并对整改结果予以独立评价。Internal Control
UOB (China) has a well-established internal control system 
that adheres strictly to local regulators’ requirements and 
the Group’s policies and guidelines. This provides a robust 
framework  that  enables  the  Bank  to  set  strategic  and 
practical objectives to support its business development.The  Board  assesses  the  Bank’s  internal  control  system 
through the review of risk management reports and analysis, 
operational and budget reports, internal audit reports tabled 
at regular meetings, discussions at various internal committees 
and from the exchange of insights with industry peers.The integrity and effectiveness of the Bank’s internal control 
system is a result of the continuous improvement on the 
internal control environment, including, but not limited to, 
strengthening of risk identification/assessment, monitoring 
processes  and  risk  mitigation  techniques;  and  constantly 
reviewing communication/feedback as well as evaluation 
/correction  mechanisms.  The  internal  control  system  is 
able  to  provide  a  reasonable  level  of  assurance  on  the 
implementation of legal statutes and regulations.Internal Audit
Internal  Audit  is  an  independent  function  that  reports 
functionally to the Audit Committee (AC) and Group Audit, 
while administratively reporting to the President and CEO of 
UOB (China).The  primary  role  of  Internal  Audit  is  to  assist  the  Board 
and  management  to  discharge  their  legal  and  executive 
obligations by providing independent, objective assurance 
and value-added services to improve the Bank’s operations. 
It  helps  the  Bank  to  accomplish  its  objectives  by  having 
a  systematic  and  disciplined  approach  to  provide  an 
independent assessment of the adequacy and effectiveness 
of  the  Bank’s  internal  financial  controls,  operational  and 
compliance controls, and to improve the effectiveness of risk 
management, control and governance processes.It  performs  its  internal  audit  function  according  to  the 
Internal  Audit  Guidelines  for  Financial  Institutions  as 
governed by the China Banking Regulatory Commission and 
Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing 
set by the Institute of Internal Auditors. Internal Audit adopts 
a risk-based prioritisation approach to develop its strategic 
audit  plan  to  determine  audit  frequency.  This  approach 
also adopts a comprehensive assessment of inherent risks, 
controls and regulatory hot spots. The audit scope covers 
all businesses, operations as well as the infrastructure and 
applications of systems across UOB (China)’s headquarters 
and branches. The strategic plan is reviewed annually.All internal audit reports are provided to the AC. Significant 
issues are highlighted by Internal Audit, who also monitors 
closely  the  follow-up  actions  taken  by  the  management 
team on the issues raised by Internal Audit, external audit 
and regulators.UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|49风险管理
Risk Management风险管理是业务战略中不可或缺的构成要素。我行的风险管理方法
着重于确保连续的财务稳健性和对我行股东权益和相关方利益的保
护，同时在快速变化的环境中敏捷地把握创造价值的商机。我们致
力于保持高标准的公司治理、健全的风险管理原则和业务实践，以
实现可持续的长期增长。我们不断努力实现最佳风险管理实践，以
支持我们战略目标的实现。我行的方法大华银行（中国）的风险管理结构如下图所示，旨在促进全行的风
险意识文化。这需要各个风险和管理监督部门与业务部门合作，以
识别风险并促进业务部门风险和控制的自我评估。风险管理架构
我们的风险管理策略旨在确保适当的风险治理，以促进持续有效的
风险发现，并有效地预留足够的资本以应对业务活动和外部因素引
致的风险。高级管理委员会在经董事会及其委员会批准的范围内管
理风险。我们制定了由政策、方法、工具和流程组成的管理框架，
帮助我们识别、计量、监控和管理银行面临的重大风险。这使我们
能够集中精力于银行业的基本理念，并为所有利益相关方创造长期
价值。Managing risk is an integral part of our business strategy. Our 
risk management approach focuses on ensuring continued 
financial soundness and safeguarding the interests of our 
stakeholders, while remaining nimble to seize value-creating 
business opportunities in a fast changing environment. We 
are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate 
governance, sound risk management principles and business 
practices  to  achieve  sustainable  long-term  growth.  We 
continuously strive towards best risk management practices 
to support our strategic objectives.Our Approach
UOB (China)’s risk management structure, as shown in the 
following diagram, aims to promote a ‘risk aware’ culture 
throughout  the  Bank.  This  requires  the  various  risk  and 
control oversight functions to work together with business 
units to identify their risks and to facilitate their risk and 
control self-assessments.Risk Management Structure
Our risk management strategy is targeted at ensuring proper 
risk  governance  so  as  to  facilitate  ongoing  effective  risk 
discovery and to set aside adequate capital efficiently to 
cater for the risks arising from our business activities and 
external factors. Risks are managed within levels established 
by the senior management committees and approved by the 
Board and its committees. We have put in place a framework 
of policies, methodologies, tools and processes that will help 
us identify, measure, monitor and manage material risks faced 
by the Bank. This allows us to concentrate our efforts on the 
fundamentals of banking and to create long-term value for 
all our stakeholders.风险偏好，政策和治理框架Risk Appetite, Policies and Governance资本管理Capital Management战略计划和预算绩效管理Strategic Planning and BudgetingPerformance Management化
文
险
风e
r
u
t
l
u
C
 
k
s
i
R压力测试和情景分析Stress Testing and
Scenario Analysis资本，风险和回报最优化Capital, Risk and Return Optimisation风险识别Risk Identification风险计量Risk Assessment风险监控Risk Monitoring风险汇报Risk Reporting员工、流程、系统People, Processes, Systems50 大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告|银行的风险治理框架、政策和偏好为银行风险管理活动提供了总体
原则和指引。它们有助于资本管理、战略规划和预算编制以及绩效
管理的关键决策，以确保风险这一维度得到适当和充分考虑。我们
还在制定风险相关的关键绩效指标时考虑了银行的风险偏好，以进
行绩效衡量。这也用来在全行部门中树立风险管理理念和文化。我行的风险治理框架、政策和偏好通过识别、计量、监控和报告流
程实施。风险报告定期提交给管理层和董事会，以便他们了解银行
的风险状况。风险治理我行的风险管理责任始于董事会对银行治理结构进行的监督，旨在
确保银行的业务活动：
·  以安全有效的方式开展并符合高标准及健全的商业惯例；
·  符合我行整体业务战略和风险偏好；以及
·  受制于充分的风险管理和内部控制。在这方面，执行委员会和董事会风险管理委员会协助董事会工作。
董事会也对银行的整体风险偏好和维持的风险资本水平进行审阅。在充分考虑风险和回报因素的前提下，由行长兼首席执行官建立的
各高级管理委员会负责协助进行业务决策。涉及的主要高级管理委
员会包括管理委员会，资产负债委员会，信贷委员会，操作风险管
理委员会，消费者权益保护委员会和风险与资本委员会。这些委员
会还协助董事会就具体风险领域的管理。高级管理层和高级管理委员会被授权对业务条线和 / 或宽泛的产品
条线授予风险偏好限额。风险管理也是银行内每个员工的责任。风险意识和职责通过一个既
定的框架嵌入到我们的企业文化中，确保整个银行和各种类型的风
险得到有效管理。这是通过如下所示的三道“防线”的组织控制结
构实现的：The Bank’s risk governance frameworks, policies and appetite 
provide  the  overarching  principles  and  guidance  for  the 
Bank’s risk management activities. They help to shape our 
key decisions for capital management, strategic planning and 
budgeting, and performance management to ensure that the 
risk dimension is appropriately and sufficiently considered. 
We also take into consideration the Bank’s risk appetite in 
the development of risk-related key performance indicators 
(KPIs) for performance measurement. This serves to embed 
a  risk  management  mindset  and  culture  throughout  the 
organisation.Our risk governance frameworks, policies and appetites are 
implemented through identification, assessment, monitoring 
and reporting processes. Risk reports are regularly submitted 
to management and the Board to keep them apprised of the 
Bank’s risk profile.Risk Governance
UOB (China)’s responsibility for risk management starts at the 
top with our Board overseeing a governance structure that is 
designed to ensure that the Bank’s business activities are:
•    conducted in a safe and sound manner and in line withthe highest standards of professionalism;•    consistent with the Bank’s overall business strategy and•        subjected  to  adequate  risk  management  and  internalrisk appetite; andcontrols.In  this  regard,  the  Board  is  assisted  by  the  Executive 
Committee (EXCO) and Board Risk Management Committee 
(BRMC). The Board also reviews the overall risk appetite and 
level of risk capital to maintain for the Bank.The CEO has established senior management committees to 
assist in making business decisions with due consideration to 
risks and returns. The main senior management committees 
involved  in  this  are  the  Management  Committee  (MC), 
Asset  and  Liability  Committee  (ALCO),  In-Country  Credit 
Committee (ICCC), Operational Risk Management Committee 
(ORMC), Consumer Rights Protection Committee (CRPC) and 
the Risk and Capital Committee (RCC). These committees 
also assist the Board committees in specific risk areas.Senior management and the senior management committees 
are authorised to delegate risk appetite limits by business 
lines and/or broad product lines.Risk management is also the responsibility of every employee 
within  the  Bank.  Risk  awareness  and  accountability  are 
embedded in our culture through an established framework 
that ensures appropriate oversight and accountability for the 
effective management of risk throughout the Bank and across 
risk types. This is executed through an organisation control 
structure that provides three “lines-of-defence” as follows:UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|51风险管理
Risk Management风险治理结构
Risk Governance Structure董事会Board of Directors首席执行官CEO员
委
属
下
会
事
董s
e
e
t
t
im
m
o
C
d
r
a
o
B会
员
委
理
管
级
高s
e
e
t
t
im
m
o
Ctm
g
Mir
o
n
e
S· 审计委员会
      Audit  Committee· 董事会风险管理委员会
      Board Risk Management Committee· 提名及薪酬委员会
      Nominating and Remuneration Committee
· 执行委员会
      Executive Committee
· 关联交易控制委员会
      Connected Transactions Control Committee· 风险与资本委员会
      Risk & Capital Committee
· 信贷委员会
      In-Country Credit Committee
· 资产负债委员会
      Asset & Liability Committee
· 管理委员会
      Management Committee
· 客户权益保护委员会
      Consumer Rights Protection Committee
· 操作风险管理委员会
      Operational Risk Management Committee业务部门Business Functions支持部门Support Functions风险控制部门首席风险官Risk Control FunctionsChief Risk Officer内部
审计Internal 
Audit外部
审计External 
Audit第一道防线  First line of defence第二道防线 Second line of defence第三道防线 Third line of defence52|大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告第一道防线—风险所有者：
各业务及业务支持部门应对由于自身业务活动产生的风险承担首要
责任，实施并执行有效的风险管理控制措施。这包括充分的管理及
监督控制以确保合规，同时对控制失效、流程缺陷及非预期的突发
事件引起关注并作相应的报告。第二道防线—风险监督：
风险控制监督部门（例如风险管理部及合规部）、首席风险官及高
级管理委员会为第二道防线。风险控制监督部门协助银行实现平衡增长和稳定的发展策略，制定
风险政策、框架、风险偏好和限额，而业务部门在此范围内进行业
务操作。风险控制监督部门也负责对银行整体风险概况进行独立的
评审及监控，并向相关的高级管理委员会报告显著薄弱环节及风险
问题。风险控制监督部门具有的独立性保证了必要的查核和平衡。第三道防线—独立审计：
我行的内部审计以及聘请的外部审计对第一道防线和第二道防线在
内的所有方面执行风险导向型审计，向行长兼首席执行官、审计委
员会及董事会独立提供对风险管理及控制结构、政策、框架、系统
和流程的有效性的保障。First line of defence - The Risk Owner: 
The business and business support functions have primary 
responsibility  for  implementing  and  executing  effective 
controls  for  the  management  of  risks  arising  from  their 
business  activities.  This  includes  establishing  adequate 
managerial and supervisory controls to ensure compliance 
with approved risk policies, appetite, limits and controls and 
to highlight control breakdowns, inadequacy of processes 
and unexpected risk events.Second line of defence - Risk Oversight: 
The  risk  and  control  oversight  functions  (such  as  Risk 
Management  and  Compliance  Function),  the  Chief  Risk 
Officer  (CRO)  and  the  senior  management  committees 
provide the second line of defence.The risk and control oversight functions support the Bank’s 
strategy of balancing growth with stability by establishing risk 
policies, frameworks, risk appetite and limits within which 
the business functions must operate. The risk and control 
oversight functions are also responsible for the independent 
review and monitoring of the Bank’s risk profile and highlight 
any significant vulnerabilities and risk issues to the respective 
management committees.The independence of risk and control oversight functions 
from business functions ensures the necessary checks and 
balances.Third line of defence - Independent Audit: 
The Bank’s internal and external auditors conduct risk-based 
audits covering all aspects of the first and second lines of 
defence to provide independent assurance to the CEO, Audit 
Committee and the Board, on the effectiveness of the risk 
management  and  control  structure,  policies,  frameworks, 
systems and processes.UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|53Risk Appetite
UOB  (China)  has  established  a  risk  appetite  framework 
to  define  the  amount  of  risk  we  are  able  and  willing  to 
take in pursuit of its business objectives. The objective of 
establishing a risk appetite framework is not to limit risk-
taking  but  to  ensure  that  the  Bank’s  risk  profile  remains 
within well-defined and tolerable boundaries. The framework 
was formulated based on the following key criteria:•    Relevance to respective stakeholders, with appropriatelevels of granularity;•    Practical, consistent and easy to understand metrics forcommunication and implementation;•     Alignment to key elements of the Bank’s business strategy;
•     Analytically substantiated and measureable metrics.The risk appetite defines suitable thresholds and limits across 
key areas including but not limited to credit risk, country 
risk, market risk, liquidity risk, operational risk and reputation 
risk.  Our  risk-taking  approach  is  focused  on  businesses 
which we understand and are well-equipped to manage the 
risk involved. Through this approach, we aim to minimise 
earnings volatility and concentration risk and ensure that 
our high credit rating, strong capital and funding base remain 
intact. This allows us to be a stable partner of our customers 
through changing economic conditions and cycles.UOB  (China)’s  risk  appetite  framework  is  updated  and 
approved annually by the Board. Management monitors and 
reports the risk limits to the Board and BRMC.风险管理
Risk Management风险偏好大华银行（中国）已经建立了风险偏好框架，确定银行力求实现业
务目标过程中能够并且愿意承担的风险总量。建立风险偏好框架的
目的不是为了限制承担风险，而是确保银行的风险状况保持在明确
界定和可容忍的范围内。该框架是根据以下主要标准制定的：·    与相应利益相关方的相关性，具有适当的细分级别；
·    实用、一致和易于沟通和实施的指标；
·    与我行业务战略的关键要素保持一致；
·    可分析证明和可衡量的指标。风险偏好定义了关键领域的适当阈值和限额，包括但不限于信贷风
险、国家风险、市场风险、流动性风险、操作风险和声誉风险。我
们承受风险的方式是聚焦于被充分了解且具有完备风险管理能力的
各项业务。通过这种方法，我们的目标是尽量减少盈利波动和集中
风险，确保银行良好的信用评级、充足的资本和资金来源得到保持。
这使我们能够在不断变化的经济条件和周期中，成为我们客户的稳
定的合作伙伴。我行的风险偏好框架每年定期更新并由董事会批准通过。银行管理
层负责风险偏好限额的管控并将遵循情况上报董事会及董事会风险
管理委员会知悉。54|大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告重大风险大华银行（中国）的业务战略、产品、客户组合和经营环境使我们
面临金融和非金融风险。识别和监控重大风险是本行风险管理方法
的组成部分。它使我们能够对整个银行进行适当的评估并积极采取
缓释措施降低这些风险。可能影响成功实现银行战略目标的重大风
险如下：Material Risks
UOB (China)’s business strategies, products, customer profiles 
and operating environment expose us to a number of financial 
and non-financial risks. Identifying and monitoring key risks 
are  integral  to  the  Bank’s  approach  to  risk  management. 
It  allows  us  to  make  proper  assessment  and  proactively 
mitigate  these  risks  across  the  Bank.  The  key  risks  which 
could impact the success of achieving the Bank’s strategic 
objectives are as follows.信贷风险
Credit Risk交易对手风险
集中度风险
国别风险Counterparty  Risk
Concentration RiskCountry RiskFu资n流d金L
iin动qg和ui性a市dn风i
tdy险M场Ri
sar重大风险Material RiskskketLiq流动ui性di
t风yR险i
sk险
风
场
市Market  Risk外汇风利险风品商险风率险Foreign Exchange Risk
Interest Rate  Risk
modity  RiskCom大宗公RDMF市arka
i
r平场交ep声ut誉at
i风o险nRi
sketC行e易a
l
i为onngduct反洗钱和反恐融资风险
Anti-money Laundering 
and Countering TerroristFinancing Risk监管风险Regulatory Risk险技风科风欺律法险诈险风Technology Risk
Legal Risk
Fraud Risk险风作Operational Risk操大华银行（中国）采纳了巴塞尔框架要求并遵守中国银行业监督管
理委员会对商业银行的资本管理措施。我们继续采用谨慎和具有前
瞻性的方法在不断演化的监管环境中寻求发展，强调在健全风险管
理原则指导下取得可持续业务回报。我行已采用内部资本充足评估程序，持续评估支持我们业务所需的
资本金额。我们定期审阅内部资本充足评估程序，以确保在考虑所
有重大风险的情况下银行保持良好资本规模。我行通过开展压力测
试确定在压力条件下的资本充足率。UOB (China) has adopted the Basel Framework and observes 
capital management measures on commercial banks by China 
Banking  Regulatory  Commission  (CBRC).  We  continue  to 
adopt a prudent and proactive approach in navigating the 
evolving regulatory landscape, with emphasis on sound risk 
management principles in delivering sustainable returns.We  have  adopted  Internal  Capital  Adequacy  Assessment 
Process (ICAAP) to assess on an ongoing basis the amount of 
capital necessary to support our activities. We review the 
ICAAP periodically to ensure that the Bank remains well-
capitalised after considering all material risks. Stress testing 
is conducted to determine capital adequacy under stressed 
conditions.UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|55风险管理
Risk Management信贷风险信贷风险是由于借款人或交易对手无法履行到期的金融或偿付义务
而引致的损失风险。信贷风险是我行开展银行业务所面临的最大单
一风险，通常源自对于零售、公司或者机构借款人的贷款业务或其
他借贷相关承诺。资金和资本市场操作及投资业务同样也会使银行
面临交易对手和发行人的信用风险。完整的信贷风险管理框架清楚地定义了与信贷风险的衡量和管理相
关的政策和流程。信贷风险治理和组织
风险与资本委员会和信贷委员会是监督信贷风险的主要管理层委员
会，并协助行长兼首席执行官和董事会层级委员会管理银行的整体
信贷风险敞口。这些委员会商论所有与信贷相关的问题，包括信贷
风险管理框架、政策、程序、基础设施、方法和系统等。其中信贷
委员会还负责在董事会设定的风险偏好和执行委员会授权的审批限
额内批准对借款人和 / 或交易对手的信贷额度和敞口。风险与资本
委员会经会商通过信贷风险管理框架并提交执行委员会批准，并且
承担审阅和评估银行信贷组合和信贷风险状况的职责。信贷风险管理部门负责所有信贷风险相关的报告、分析和管理。借
鉴大华银行集团的经验，同时满足本地监管和业务需求，该部门负
责起草全行性的信贷政策和指引，并专注于在审慎、一致和有效的
信贷风险管理框架下促进业务发展。Credit Risk
Credit risk is the risk of loss arising from any failure by a 
borrower or counterparty to meet its financial obligations 
when  such  obligations  are  due.  Credit  risk  is  the  single 
largest risk that we face in our core business as a commercial 
bank, arising primarily from loans and other lending-related 
commitments to retail, corporate and institutional borrowers. 
Treasury and capital market operations, and investments also 
expose the Bank to counterparty and issuer credit risks.Integral  to the management of credit risk  is  a framework 
that clearly defines policies and processes relating to the 
measurement and management of credit risk.Credit Risk Governance and Organisation
The  RCC  and  ICCC  are  the  key  oversight  committees  for 
credit risk and support the CEO and board level committees 
in  managing  the  Bank’s  overall  credit  risk  exposures.  The 
committees serve as executive forum for discussions on all 
credit-related issues including the credit risk management 
framework, policies, processes, infrastructure, methodologies 
and systems. Particularly, ICCC holds the responsibility of 
approving credit facilities and exposures to borrowers and/or 
counterparties of the Bank within the Risk Appetite Limit set 
by the Board and the discretionary limits delegated by the 
EXCO. RCC discusses and proposes credit risk management 
framework for EXCO’s approval, and reviews and assesses the 
Bank’s credit portfolios and credit risk profiles.The Credit Risk Management Division is responsible for the 
reporting, analysis and management of all elements of credit 
risk.  By  adopting  parent  practice  while  catering  for  local 
regulatory and business need, it develops bank-wide credit 
policies and guidelines, and focuses on facilitating business 
development  within  a  prudent,  consistent  and  efficient 
credit risk management framework.56|大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告风险政策和程序
我们在以下关键领域建立了信贷政策和流程来管理信贷风险：独立的信贷批准
为保持信贷审批程序的健全和独立性，我行的信贷业务发起与审批
职能相分离。信贷审批授权根据审批官的经验、资历和工作记录予
以委任，并基于同客户信用评级风险调整系数关联的审批结构。所
有审批官接受信贷政策和信贷接纳标准的指导。信贷政策和信贷接
纳标准将周期性进行审阅和必要更新，以确保同银行发展策略和业
务环境的连续性和适用性。内部评级系统
我行采用内部评级模型来支持信贷风险评估并按照评级或资产类别
对信贷敞口进行分类。内部评级的使用被贯穿于信贷审批、信贷审
阅和监测、信贷压力测试、限额设定、定价和催收等领域。相关模
型在运用前须通过独立的验证，以确保它们符合需要。为了持续监
测评级模型的可靠性，所有模型须由其拥有部门进行年度审阅，以
确保所选取的风险因素和假设继续与相应的信贷组合保持适用性。信贷集中度风险
信贷集中度风险可能源于单笔的大额信贷敞口或互相关联的多笔敞
口。 该类风险通过设定不同种类的限额进行管理， 包括集团、借款
人、行业和国别等，通常限定为银行资本额的一定百分比。定期评
估出现的风险并展望行业和国家前景也被用来提供前瞻性观点，以
衡量对我行业务敞口组合可能的影响。信贷压力测试
信贷压力测试是信贷资产组合管理的一个重要组成部分。它包括确
定可能对我行信贷风险产生不利影响的事件或未来经济状况变化，
以及评估我行在压力情景中管理财务资源的能力。同样的，我行亦
会根据银监会要求的压力情景和实验参数，对指定的贷款组合实施
相应的信贷压力测试及敏感性分析，以评估受压情况下的贷款质量
和资本状况。Credit Risk Policies and Processes
We have established credit policies and processes to manage 
credit risk in the following key areas:Credit Approval Process
To maintain the independence and integrity of the credit 
approval  process,  our  credit  origination  and  approval 
functions are clearly segregated. Credit approval authority 
is delegated to officers based on their experience, seniority 
and  track  record,  and  credit  approval  is  based  on  a  risk-
adjusted scale according to a borrower’s credit rating. All 
credit approval officers are guided by credit policies and 
credit acceptance guidelines that are periodically reviewed 
to ensure their continued relevance to the Bank’s business 
strategy and the business environment.Internal Rating System
The  Bank  employs  internal  rating  models  to  support  the 
assessment of credit risk and the assignment of exposures to 
rating grades or pools. Internal ratings are used pervasively 
by the Bank in the areas of credit approval, credit review and 
monitoring, credit stress testing, limits setting, pricing and 
collections. The models are independently validated before 
they are implemented to ensure they are fit for purpose. 
The robustness of these rating models is monitored on an 
ongoing basis, and all models are subject to annual reviews 
conducted by model owners to ascertain that the chosen risk 
factors and assumptions continue to remain relevant for the 
respective portfolios.Credit Concentration Risk
Credit  concentration  risk  may  arise  from  a  single  large 
exposure  or  from  multiple  exposures  that  are  closely 
correlated.  This  is  managed  by  setting  exposure  limits 
on  obligor  groups,  portfolios,  borrowers,  industries  and 
countries, generally expressed as a percentage of the Bank’s 
eligible  capital  base.  Regular  assessments  of  emerging 
risks  and  reviews  of  industry  and  country  outlooks  are 
also  performed  to  provide  a  forward-looking  view  on 
developments that could impact the Bank’s portfolio.Credit Stress Test
Credit stress-testing is an integral part of the Bank’s credit 
portfolio  management  process.  It  involves  identifying 
possible events or future changes in economic conditions 
that  may  have  unfavorable  effects  on  the  Bank’s  credit 
exposures,  and  assessing  the  Bank’s  ability  to  manage  its 
financial resources through adverse circumstances. Likewise, 
business  credit  stress  test  or  sensitivity  analysis  are  also 
conducted to assess designated loan portfolio’s quality and 
capital impact under the stress scenario and test parameters 
prescribed by CBRC.UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|57风险管理
Risk Management信贷风险缓释
我行的潜在信贷损失可以通过一系列的增信手段如抵押品、衍生产
品、担保和净额结算安排等起到风险缓释目的。作为一项基本信贷
原则，我行不允许仅凭收到抵押品即给予客户授信，所有授信必须
基于对借款人信用水平、还款来源和偿付能力的综合考量。尽可能地获取抵押品是作为风险缓释的一种手段，抵押品的价值会
被定期监控。价值评估频度则取决于抵押品的种类、可变现性和价
值波动程度。我行接受抵押品的主要种类包括现金、房地产和银行
担保。适当的扣减抵押品的市场价值，反映抵押品的质量、波动性
和可变现性的基本性质。当向中小型企业提供信贷支持时，通常要求客户的主要股东或董事
提供个人担保以显示并确保其对借款人在道义上的承诺和支持。外汇、衍生品和证券融资交易的风险敞口通过签订国际掉期及衍生
工具协会主协议或中国银行间市场金融衍生产品交易主协议得到缓
释。此类安排允许我行在发生违约时以净额结算方式平盘未了结的
交易，从而将风险敞口降到最低。信贷监控和应对管理
银行定期监测和分析信贷敞口、信贷组合表现和可能影响整体信用
水平的新显现的风险。董事会和高级管理层通过各类内部风险报告
获得信贷风险趋势的更新情况。我行还建立了信贷早期预警机制，
由业务部门向高级管理层上报发生信贷质量下降客户的情况，以便
商讨制定账户策略并采取应对行动。Credit Risk Mitigation
Our potential credit losses are mitigated through a variety 
of instruments such as collateral, derivatives, guarantees and 
netting  arrangements.  As  a  fundamental  credit  principle, 
the Bank generally does not grant credit facilities solely on 
the basis of the collateral provided. All credit facilities are 
granted based on the credit standing of the borrower, source 
of repayment and debt servicing ability.Collateral is taken whenever possible to mitigate the credit 
risk assumed and the value of the collateral is monitored 
periodically.  The  frequency  of  valuation  depends  on  the 
type, liquidity and volatility of the collateral. The main types 
of collateral taken by the Bank include cash, real estate and 
bank  guarantees.  Appropriate  haircuts  are  applied  to  the 
market value of collateral, reflecting the underlying nature of 
the collateral, quality, volatility and liquidity.In  extending  credit  facilities  to  small-  and  medium-sized 
enterprises (SMEs), we also often take personal guarantees as 
a form of moral support to ensure moral commitment from 
the principal shareholders and directors.Exposures  arising  from  foreign  exchange,  derivatives  and 
securities  financing  transactions  are  typically  mitigated 
through  agreements  such  as  the  International  Swaps  and 
Derivatives  Association  (ISDA)  Master  Agreements,  and 
the National Association of Financial Market Institutional 
Investors  (NAFMII)  Agreement.    Such  agreements  help  to 
minimise  credit  exposure  by  allowing  us  to  offset  what 
we  owe  to  a  counterparty  against  what  is  due  from  that 
counterparty in the event of a default.Credit Monitoring and Remedial Management
The  Bank  regularly  monitors  credit  exposures,  portfolio 
performance and emerging risks that may impact our credit 
risk profile. The Board and senior management are updated 
on credit trends through internal risk reports. An early alert 
process  has  also  been  put  in  place  whereby  vulnerable 
accounts  are  escalated  by  the  business  units  to  senior 
management for discussion on account strategy and remedial 
actions.58|大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告逾期账户管理
我行密切监控逾期账户，并以此作为信贷质量的一个重要指示标志。
当客户未能按时还本和 / 或付息时，相应账户即构成逾期。所有逾
期账户包括循环授信（如透支业务）的信用额度超限都将由业务部
门和风险管理部门按规定程序进行监控和管理。贷款分类、损失准备和不良贷款核销
我行依据借款人以正常经营收入归还信贷的能力对信贷资产组合进
行分类。任何逾期或额度超限（如循环授信项下的透支业务）达到
90 天以上的账户将被自动划归为“不良”类。所有客户贷款和垫付款项按照银监会的指引要求被分为“正常”、“关
注”和“不良贷款”，其中不良贷款被进一步分为“次级”、“可疑”
或“损失”类。我行制订了独立的信贷复审流程来确保贷款五级分
类的合理性。提高不良类账户的分类至“正常”或“关注”时，需以借款人的还
款能力、现金流和财务状况的全面评估作为支持依据。银行应确信
一旦被解除不良分类后，该账户将不会在短期内再次被降级。重组贷款须被划归为“不良”类，并根据银行基于重组条款对借款
人的财务状况和还款能力的评估结果给予适当的信贷分类评级。贷款损失准备的计提严格按照有关指引并谨慎考量包括不良账户项
下抵押品变现收入在内的不良信贷未来清收处置价值。仅当恢复的
前景被认为较差或是其它可能的还款来源均被追索受偿后，该账户
才被准予核销。特殊资产管理和零售信贷管理
特殊资产管理部门和零售信贷管理部门分别对银行的企业和住房抵
押贷款不良资产组合进行管理。对不良账户进行主动管理的目标包
括：将这些账户恢复正常并转回相应的业务部门；或退出该业务关系，
最大限度地争取不良贷款回收。Delinquency Monitoring
We monitor closely the delinquency of borrowing accounts 
as it is a key indicator of credit quality. An account is considered 
as  delinquent  when  payment  is  not  received  on  the  due 
date. Any delinquent account, including a revolving credit 
facility (such as an overdraft) with limit excesses, is closely 
monitored and managed through a disciplined process by 
officers from business units and risk management function.Loan Classification, Provisioning and Write-Off
We classify our credit portfolios according to the borrower’s 
ability to repay the credit facility from their normal source 
of income. Any account which is delinquent (or in excess 
for a revolving credit facility such as an overdraft) for more 
than  90  days,  will  be  categorised  automatically  as  ‘Non-
Performing’.All borrowing accounts are categorised into ‘Pass’, ‘Special 
Mention’ or ‘Non-Performing’ categories. Non-Performing 
accounts are further categorised as ‘Substandard’, ‘Doubtful’ 
or  ‘Loss’  in  accordance  with  the  guidelines  of  CBRC.  The 
Bank has an independent credit review process to ensure the 
appropriateness of loan grading and classification.Upgrading and declassification of a Non-Performing account 
to ‘Pass’ or ‘Special Mention’ status must be supported by 
a credit assessment of the repayment capability, cash flows 
and  financial  position  of  the  borrower.  It  must  also  be 
satisfied that once the account is declassified, the account is 
unlikely to be classified again in the near future.A restructured account is categorised as ‘Non-Performing’ 
and placed on the appropriate classified grade based on our 
assessment of the financial condition of the borrower and the 
ability of the borrower to repay under the restructured terms.Loan loss provision is made in line with CBRC guidelines after 
careful consideration of the future recovery value including 
liquidation of collateral of the Non-Performing account. A 
classified account is written off when the prospect of a recovery 
is considered poor or when all feasible avenues of recovery have 
been exhausted.Special Asset Management and Retail Credit Management
Special  Asset  Management  (SAM)  and  Retail  Credit 
Management manage the Bank’s corporate and housing loan 
non-performing  portfolios  respectively.  Non-performing 
accounts  are  proactively  managed  with  the  intention  of 
nursing such accounts back to health and transferring them 
back to the respective business units or exiting the accounts 
in order to maximise recovery.UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|59风险管理
Risk Management贷款风险分类及不良贷款情况                                  
Loans by Classification贷款分类
 Loans by Classification正常 Pass关注 Special Mention次级 Substandard可疑 Doubtful损失 Loss合计 Total人民币（百万元）Outstanding (RMB’m)27,4561713775-27,685占比
(%)99%0%1%0%0%100%（贷款行业分布和区域分布信息请参见我行审计财务报告的相关注释部分）
(For Loans by Industry Distribution and by Geographical Region, please refer to relevant note of the audited financial report)2017 年底，不良贷款合计人民币 2.12 亿元 , 占贷款总额比例为 0.77%。 As at 31 December 2017, total non-performing loans amounted 
to RMB211.9 million, representing 0.77 per cent of the Bank’s 
total loans portfolio.60 大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告|市场风险
我行资产负债委员会通过每月例会定期审阅市场风险相关事务，并
为市场风险管理提供指引。风险管理部下属的市场风险管理及监控
部门和资产负债风险管理部门负责提交有关市场风险敞口的独立报
告，供风险与资本委员会和资产负债委员会审阅。我行市场风险管理框架包含市场风险政策、程序、控制和适当的风
险管理授权以及市场风险限额。 我行采用的估值方法符合市场惯例，
并且估值与风险模型得到独立验证。此外，推出新产品与服务前，
会通过产品或服务开发流程确保相关市场风险得到充分识别和监控
管理。我行不断审阅和强化衍生产品风险管理，以确保合理控制业
务复杂性。我行市场风险偏好是考虑了银行整体要求及业务部门目标利润的平
衡的结果，同时也将银行的资本状况考虑其中。从而保证即使在极
端压力条件下，银行依旧保持资本充足。我行将市场风险偏好转化
为风险限额并授权给业务部门管理，业务部门在限额下开展相关业
务所承受的风险与其产生的利润相匹配。我行市场风险偏好涵盖所有交易账簿敞口和非交易账簿的外汇敞口。
我行市场风险主要源于代客交易行为，结构化产品挂钩的交易行为
以及自营交易等交易组合中利率、汇率和商品价格的变化。我行目前使用标准法计量监管要求下的市场风险资本，使用内部模
型法计量和监控交易账簿市场风险。我行在内部市场风险管理中采用 99% 置信区间下测算日风险价值的
历史模拟法。该方法认为诸如利率、汇率和商品价格等风险因子在
未来的变动特征可以通过观察其历史数据得到。Market Risk
The ALCO meets monthly to review and provide directions 
on market risk matters. The Market Risk Management and 
Product Control (MRPC) and Balance Sheet Risk Management 
(BSRM)  Divisions  support  the  RCC  and  the  ALCO  with 
independent assessment of the market risk profile of the 
Bank.The  Bank’s  market  risk  framework  comprises  market  risk 
policies, practices, and the control structure with appropriate 
delegation of authority and market risk limits. We employ 
valuation methodologies that are in line with sound market 
practices, and we independently validate valuation and risk 
models. In addition, a Product/Service Programme process 
ensures  that  market  risk  issues  identified  are  adequately 
addressed  prior  to  the  launch  of  products  and  services. 
We  continually  review  and  enhance  our  management  of 
derivatives  risks  to  ensure  that  the  complexities  of  the 
business are appropriately controlled.Our  overall  market  risk  appetite  is  balanced  at  the  Bank 
and  business  unit  levels  with  targeted  revenue  and  takes 
into account the capital position of the Bank. This ensures 
that the Bank remains well-capitalised, even under  stress 
conditions. The risk appetite  is translated  into risk limits 
that are delegated to business units. These risk limits have 
proportional returns that are commensurate with the risks 
taken.Market  risk  appetite  is  provided  for  all  trading  exposure 
within the Bank as well as the Bank’s non-trading Foreign 
Exchange  (FX)  exposures.  The  Bank  is  mainly  exposed  to 
market risk in its trading portfolios that arises from changes 
in  interest  rates,  foreign  exchange  rates  and  commodity 
prices  from  the  Bank’s  client-driven  market  making  and 
product structuring activities as well as trading activities.The Bank currently adopts the Standardised Approach for the 
calculation of regulatory market risk capital but uses Internal 
Models Approach to measure and control trading market 
risks.The Bank estimates a daily Value-at-Risk (VaR) within a 99 
per cent confidence interval, using the historical simulation 
method, as a control for market risk. The method assumes 
that possible future changes in market rates may be implied 
by observed historical market movements.UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|61风险管理
Risk Management交易账簿回溯测试结果：
Trading Backtesting Chart损益（新币 千）
P/L (SGD $'K)大华银行（中国）- 交易账簿回溯测试（假设日损益与 99% 置信间下的风险价值比较）UOB (China) - Trading Backtesting Chart(Hypothetical daily profit and loss versus VaR@ 99% confidence interval)2,5002,0001,5001,0005000(500)(1,000)(1,500)(2,000)(2,500)(3,000)假设损益
Hypo PL
风险价值
VaR31-Dec-1631-Jan-1728-Feb-1731-Mar-1730-Apr-1731-May-1730-Jun-1731-Jul-1731-Aug-1730-Sep-1731-Oct-1730-Nov-1731-Dec-17风险价值是计量潜在损失的统计测量方法，通过回溯测试比较交易
账簿的损益与风险价值的差异来验证该方法的可靠性。通过对回溯
测试结果的分析，找出是否是因为模型缺陷或市场波动导致其中不
符合预期的结果，所有回溯测试反映的问题及解决方案都将汇报至
资产负债委员会。为弥补风险价值测量法的不足，我行借助压力测试及情景测试，找
出银行在面对某些极端情景时可能出现的损失。这些测试为主动市
场风险管理提供了早期预警信息，以应对可能的极端损失。我行 2017 年 12 月 31 日的日风险价值为人民币 534 万元。As VaR is the statistical measure for potential losses, the 
VaR measures are backtested against profit and loss of the 
trading book to validate the robustness of the methodology. 
The backtesting process analyses whether the exceptions are 
due to model deficiencies or market volatility. All backtest 
exceptions  are  tabled  at  the  ALCO  with  recommended 
actions and resolutions.To  complement  the  VaR  measure,  we  perform  stress  and 
scenario tests to identify the Bank’s vulnerability to event 
risk. These tests serve to provide early warnings of plausible 
extreme losses to facilitate proactive management of market 
risk.The Bank’s daily VaR on 31 December 2017 was RMB5.34 million.62|大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告银行账户利率风险资产负债委员会负责总揽利率风险管理框架的有效性。资产负债风
险管理部协助资产负债委员会负责监测银行账簿下的利率风险。利率风险管理的主要目标就是在多样化的经济环境中，通过确保银
行有充足、稳定、可靠的净利息收入来保护并促进银行资本和经济
价值的增长。
 
我行使用分析工具，包括重定价期限和敏感性分析定量测算银行账
簿利率风险敞口。 通过对利率敏感资产负债相对于利率变动的分析，
揭示利率变动对利息收入及经济价值潜在影响。利率敏感度受重新
定价期限、币种及隐含的期权的影响。相比于短期错配，长期的利
率错配对利率头寸价值的影响更大。我行亦采用如净利息收入和净资产经济价值定量分析方法定期进行
利率风险压力测试，以确保银行有足够的资本金应付因为利率的大
幅波动对银行资产负债表的影响。同时，该压力测试也用于对极端
情况下可能发生高额损失的早期预警并促进银行在快速波动的市场
环境下积极地管理利率风险。由于利率，汇率和股权价格变化带来交易账户下的风险通过市场风
险管理框架来进行管理和监控。Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Book
The ALCO maintains oversight of the effectiveness of the 
interest rate risk management structure. The BSRM supports 
the ALCO in monitoring the interest rate risk profile of the 
banking book.Our  primary  objective  of  interest  rate  risk  management 
is  to  protect  and  to  enhance  capital  or  economic  net 
worth through adequate, stable and reliable growth in net 
interest earnings under a broad range of possible economic 
conditions.Banking book interest rate risk exposure is quantified using 
analysis tools including repricing schedules and sensitivity 
analysis. They provide indications of the potential impact 
of interest rate changes on interest income and price value 
through the analysis of the sensitivity of assets and liabilities 
to changes in interest rates. Interest rate sensitivity varies 
with different repricing periods, currencies and embedded 
options.  Mismatches  in  the  longer  tenor  will  experience 
greater change in the price-value of interest rate positions 
than similar positions in the shorter tenor.We  also  perform  stress  tests  regularly  to  determine  the 
adequacy  of  capital  in  meeting  the  impact  of  extreme 
interest rate movements on the balance sheet. Such tests 
are also performed to provide early warnings of potential 
extreme losses, facilitating the proactive management of 
interest rate risks in an environment of rapid financial market 
changes.The risks arising from the trading book, such as interest rates, 
FX rates and equity prices are managed and controlled under 
the market risk framework.UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|63风险管理
Risk Management流动性风险我行保持充足的流动性以保障银行日常运营的开展，满足存款的提
款和贷款的发放，投资新项目以及支付到期的借款。因此，流动性
管理的主旨在于应付银行确定的及不可确定的资金需求。我行流动性风险管理是在完整的风险管理框架下进行的，包含经由
资产负债委员会和执行委员会批准的各项政策、控制流程、 风险限
额。这些政策、控制流程及风险限额确保我行在不同的市场环境下
有充足的资金以应对流动性需求。这些措施包括通过多样化资金的
来源及其期限将资金集中度降至最小，以及持有高流动性债券。我行在流动性风险管理方面采取保守立场，持续的吸收核心存款，
严格遵守流动性风险额度，保留充足的流动资产等措施来防范可能
出现的资金短缺。我行通过主动分散存款的来源，以确保成本效率的均衡，资金的持
续可获得以及资金来源的多样化。确保流动性重要的因素还包括通
过竞争性定价，积极主动地管理银行的核心存款以及维护客户的信
心。和监管当局的流动性风险管理框架一致，我行通过预测银行现金
流来度量和管理流动性风险，现金流的预测是基于“正常业务情
景”和“压力情景”来进行。我行设置现金流错配限额来控制银行
流动性风险敞口的同时，还采用流动性早期预警指标和警戒线以
揭示可能出现的危机状况。针对于 2014 年 12 月 31 日起生效的流动
性覆盖率监管要求，截止 2017 年 12 月 31 日，我行流动性覆盖率为
243.87%，其中合格优质流动性资产约为人民币 74.6 亿元，未来 30
天现金净流出量约为人民币 30.6 亿元。我行在建立的流动性应急计划中运用一系列的预警指标揭示可能发
生的流动性危机。在该应急计划中，我行通过设立危机上报流程及
包括融资、沟通等危机处理策略来减少流动性危机所带来的负面影
响。Liquidity Risk
The  bank  maintains  sufficient  liquidity  to  fund  our  day-
to-day operations, to meet deposit withdrawals and loan 
disbursements, to participate in new investments, and to 
repay borrowings. Hence, liquidity is managed in a manner to 
address known as well as unanticipated cash funding needs.Liquidity risk is managed in accordance with a framework of 
policies, controls and limits approved by the ALCO. These 
policies, controls and limits enable the bank to monitor and 
to manage  liquidity risk to ensure that sufficient sources 
of funds  are available over a range of market conditions. 
These include minimising excessive funding concentrations 
by diversifying the sources and terms of funding as well as 
maintaining a portfolio of high quality and marketable debt 
securities.We  take  a  conservative  stance  in  the  Bank’s  liquidity 
management by continuing to gather core deposits, ensuring 
that liquidity limits are strictly adhered to and that there are 
adequate liquid assets to meet cash shortfall.The distribution of deposits is managed actively to ensure a 
balance between cost effectiveness, continued accessibility 
to funds and diversification of funding sources. Important 
factors in ensuring liquidity are competitive pricing, proactive 
management of the bank’s core deposits and the maintenance 
of customer confidence.Our liquidity risk is aligned with the regulatory liquidity risk 
management framework and is measured and managed on 
a projected cash flow basis. The bank is monitored under 
business-as-usual and stress scenarios. Cash flow mismatch 
limits are established to limit the bank’s liquidity exposure. 
We also employ liquidity early warning indicators and trigger 
points to signal possible contingency situations. With regard 
to the regulatory requirements on Liquidity Coverage Ratio 
(LCR) which are effective from 31 December 2014, the bank’s 
ratio was about 243.87 per cent as at 31 December 2017 with 
High Quality Liquidity Assets (HQLA) of RMB7.46 billion and 
Net Cash Outflow (NCO) of RMB3.06 billion.We  have  contingency  funding  plans  in  place  to  identify 
potential liquidity crises using a series of warning indicators. 
Crisis management processes and various strategies including 
funding  and  communication  have  been  developed  to 
minimise the impact of any liquidity crunch.64 大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告|操作风险操作风险是由于不健全的或失效的内部流程、人员或系统及外部事
件造成损失的风险。操作风险涵盖欺诈风险、法律风险、监管合规
风险、声誉风险，外包风险与科技风险。我行的目标是以相较于我行业务营运所处市场的适当水平来管理操
作风险。操作风险治理、框架及工具
我行基于已建立的操作风险管理政策、流程所形成的框架对操作风
险进行管理，由各业务部门和支持部门对各自业务领域的操作风险
进行识别、评估、监测、缓释和及时上报。我行操作风险管理委员
会每月召开会议讨论并监督操作风险相关事宜。我行的风险治理结构采用“三道防线”的防控模式。业务和业务支
持部门作为第一道防线负责在日常工作中建立健全有效的控制环境。
各业务和支持部门负责实施操作风险框架和政策、将适当的内部控
制嵌入流程并且维持关键流程的业务恢复能力。操作风险管理部作为第二道防线的监督操作风险的管理。主要通过
提供相关框架、政策、工具和系统、内部控制的质量保障及操作风
险测量，从而对操作风险进行管理，同时，还监控并向高级管理层、
相关管理委员会及董事会汇报操作风险事项。内部审计作为第三道防线，提供针对风险治理框架总体有效性和内
部控制的独立客观的定期审计审查。风险识别和控制措施的自我评估是我行操作风险管理框架的重要内
容。其通过在全行范围实施一系列操作风险管理工具来实现。我行
制定了多个风险缓释政策和规程以保持一个良好的操作环境。我行制定了业务连续性和危机管理规程以确保一旦发生无法预料的
事件时，关键职能部门能够得到迅速和有效的恢复。高级管理层需
向董事会提交年度验证报告，陈述本行业务连续性就绪情况。Operational Risk
Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate 
or failed internal processes, people and systems, or from 
external events. Operational risk includes fraud risk, legal risk, 
regulatory compliance risks, reputational risk, outsourcing 
risk and technology risk.Our objective is to manage operational risk at appropriate 
levels  relative  to  the  markets  in  which  the  businesses 
operate.Operational Risk Governance, Framework and Tools
Operational risk is managed through a framework of policies 
and procedures by which business and support units properly 
identify, assess, monitor, mitigate and report their risks. The 
ORMC meets monthly to provide oversight of operational 
risk matters.The Operational Risk Governance structure adopts the Three 
Lines of Defence Model. The businesses, as the first line of 
defence, are responsible for establishing a robust control 
environment as part of their day-to-day operations. Each 
business  is  responsible  for  implementing  the  operational 
risk framework and policies, embedding appropriate internal 
controls into processes and maintaining business resilience 
for key activities.Operational Risk Management Division, as the second line 
of defence, oversees the management of operational risk. It 
exercises governance over operational risk through providing 
relevant  frameworks,  policies,  programmes  and  systems, 
quality assurance of internal controls as well as operational 
risk measurement. It also monitors and reports operational 
risk issues to senior management, the relevant management 
committees and the Board.Internal Audit acts as the third line of defence by providing 
an  independent  and  objective  assessment  on  the  overall 
effectiveness of the risk governance framework and internal 
control through periodic audit reviews.A  key  component  of  the  operational  risk  management 
framework is risk identification and control self-assessments. 
This is achieved through the Bank-wide implementation of 
a set of operational risk programmes. Several risk mitigation 
policies and programmes are in place to maintain a sound 
operating environment.We  have  a  business  continuity  and  crisis  management 
programme in place to ensure prompt recovery of critical 
business functions should there be unforeseen events. Our 
senior management provides an annual attestation to the 
Board on the state of business continuity readiness of the 
Bank.UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|65风险管理
Risk Management同时，我行已建立本地化的科技风险管理框架，以便用于系统、持
续地管理科技风险。合规风险是指违反法律、法规、 规定、 标准或行为准则而引起的风
险。我行通过建立和维护由一系列合规政策、流程和指导方针组成
的框架对合规风险进行识别、监测和管理。该框架也对与反洗钱和
打击恐怖主义融资相关的违规风险和被制裁风险进行管理。我行积极管理欺诈风险和贿赂风险。我行建立了管理这些风险的工
具和政策包括举报程序、重大风险报告预案以及反欺诈意识培养的
教育项目等。所有员工都必须严格遵守行为准则，包括反贿赂反贪
腐的规定。法律风险来自不可执行的、不利的、有缺陷的或未预期的合同；于
我行有关的诉讼或请求；法律法规的发展；或与适用的法律法规不
合规。业务和支持部门协同我行法律与秘书部及外部法律顾问来确
保法律风险被有效管理。声誉风险是指因银行利益相关方对我行的经营、活动和财务状况的
负面预期或看法，进而对我行盈利能力、流动性或资本引发负面影
响的风险。我行充分认识到声誉风险可能导致的不利影响并已建立
了全面的声誉风险管理政策，以发现和管理全行声誉风险。为了减轻可能因重大风险事件造成的操作损失，我行购买了涵盖犯
罪、财产损失、公众责任及董事和管理人员责任等风险的保险计划。We  have  also  adopted  a  technology  risk  management 
framework to enable the Bank to manage technology risks in 
a systematic and consistent manner.Regulatory risk refers to the risk of non-compliance with 
laws, regulations, rules, standards and codes of conduct. We 
identify, monitor and manage this risk through a structured 
governance framework of Compliance policies, procedures 
and  guidelines  maintained  by  the  Bank.  The  framework 
also manages the risk of regulatory breaches and sanctions 
relating  to  Anti-Money  Laundering  and  Countering  the 
Financing of Terrorism.The Bank actively manages fraud risk and bribery risks. Tools 
and  policies,  including  a  whistle-blowing  programme,  a 
material risk notification protocol and a fraud risk awareness 
training programme, have been developed to manage such 
risks. All employees are guided by a Code of Conduct, which 
includes anti-bribery and anti-corruption provisions.Legal risk arises from unenforceable, unfavourable, defective 
or unintended contracts, lawsuits or claims, developments in 
laws and regulations, or non-compliance with applicable laws 
and regulations. Business units work with the Bank’s legal 
counsel and external legal counsel to ensure that legal risks 
are effectively managed.Reputational risk is the risk of adverse impact on earnings, 
liquidity  or  capital  arising  from  negative  stakeholder 
perception  or  opinion  of  the  Bank’s  business  practices, 
activities and financial condition. The Bank recognises the 
impact of reputational risk and has developed a policy to 
identify and manage the risk across the Bank.Our  insurance  programme  which  covers  crime,  property 
damage, public and civil liability, as well as directors’ and 
officers’ liability, etc enables us to mitigate operational losses 
resulting from significant risk events.66 大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告|欺诈风险治理与组织大华银行（中国）积极管控欺诈与贿赂风险。为有效管理欺诈风险，
我行建立了相应的政策和工具，其阐明了有关欺诈风险管理的策略
与治理结构，并使员工牢固树立反欺诈意识和理念。同时，我行设
立欺诈事件举报热线， 组建独立调查部门，并举办欺诈风险知识培
训。全体员工在工作中坚持以《员工行为准则》为准绳，其中包含
反贿赂和反腐败的有关规定。风险管理部下属欺诈风险管理部在全行范围内推动欺诈风险管理策
略与治理的实施，包括牵头案件防控工作，落实监管部门案防工作
相关要求。欺诈风险管理部通过与业务条线紧密合作， 从预防、 侦
测、调查、整改及报告五个方面强化其现有欺诈风险管理。在公司
治理方面，欺诈风险由董事会下设审计委员会负责监督，在管理层
主要由操作风险管理委员会实施监督。Fraud Risk Governance and Organisation
UOB (China) actively manages fraud and bribery risks. Policies 
and tools are established to institutionalise the approach 
to  fraud  risk  management. It  articulates  the  strategy  and 
governance  structures  and  espouses  a  strong  anti-fraud 
awareness  and  mind-set.  A  fraud  reporting  hotline,  an 
independent investigation function and fraud risk awareness 
training programmes are developed to manage such risks. All 
employees are guided by a Code of Conduct, which includes 
anti-bribery and anti-corruption provisions.Integrated  Fraud  Management  Division  under  Risk 
Management drives strategy and governance for fraud risk 
management  across  the  country  which  covers  anti-fraud 
tasks  to  fulfill  the  regulatory  requirements.  The  Division 
works closely with business lines to strengthen their current 
practices across the five pillars of prevention,  detection, 
response,  remediation  and  reporting.  The  corporate 
governance of fraud risk is provided by the Audit Committee 
at  the  Board  level,  and  primarily  by  the  ORMC  at  the 
Management level.UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|67(1)  Shareholder Status Update
Name of Shareholder: United Overseas Bank Limited
Percentage of shares held: 100 per cent.(2) During the reporting period, there were no split or merger 
activities or other major corporate developments during 
the reporting period.(3) None of the Bank’s directors, supervisors or top management 
was penalised by the regulatory authorities during the 
reporting period.(4) Highlights during the reporting period:
-In March 2017, UOB (China) relocated Shanghai Pilot Free Trade 
Zone Sub-branch (FTZ Sub-branch) to UOB Plaza at No. 116, 128 
Yincheng Road, Pudong New Area. 
In June 2017, Shenyang Branch was relocated.
In September 2017, Tianjin Branch was relocated.
In  November  2017,  UOB  (China)  officially  opened  Kunming 
Branch, the bank’s 17    branch.th- 
- 
-Others: 
In the second half of 2016, the CBRC announced the new 
policy which allows foreign banks operating individual RMB 
business not to provide cash service and not to operate at 
ground floor premises. Following this announcement:-Shenyang Branch ceased cash business in September 2016, and 
transformed to sky branch in June 2017.-  Tianjin  Branch  ceased  cash  business  in  December  2016,  andtransformed to sky branch in September 2017.-  Hangzhou  Branch  ceased  cash  business  in  January  2017  andtransformed to sky branch in March 2017.-  Chengdu Branch ceased cash business in April 2017.
-  Chongqing Branch ceased cash business and transformed to skybranch in April 2017.-  Xiamen Branch ceased cash business in December 2017.To address China’s trend of digitalisation and transformation 
to  the  cashless  society,  the  Bank  is  digitalising  our  retail 
business. As part of this plan, we announced to cease the 
branch ATM service by phases from Q4, 2017.重要事项
Important Highlights（一）股东情况股东名称：大华银行有限公司，持股比 100%。（二）报告期内，我行无合并、分立等其他重大事项发生。（三）报告期内，我行董事、监事及高级管理人员无受监管
部门处罚的情况发生。（四）报告期内我行发生的重大事件-- 
- 
-2017 年 3 月，上海自贸试验区支行搬迁至大华银行大厦（浦东
新区银城路 116、128 号）。
2017 年 6 月，沈阳分行搬迁。 
2017 年 9 月，天津分行搬迁。 
2017 年 11 月，昆明分行正式开业。昆明分行是大华银行（中国）
在中国境内的第 17 家分支机构。其他：-2016 年下半年，银监会发文同意经营人民币个人业务的外资银行可以
根据情况不提供现金业务；营业场所如满足相关规定可以非地铺。
2016 年 9 月，沈阳分行终止现金业务，2017 年 6 月转型为非地
- 
铺分行。
2016 年 12 月，天津分行终止现金业务，2017 年 9 月转型为非地
铺分行。
2017 年 1 月，杭州分行终止现金业务，2017 年 3 月转型为非地
铺分行。
2017 年 4 月，成都分行终止现金业务。
2017 年 4 月，重庆分行终止现金业务，同时转型为非地铺分行。
2017 年 12 月，厦门分行终止现金业务。- 
- 
--为适应数字化和无现金社会的趋势，我行已积极采取措施把个人零
售业务向数字化进行转变。作为该转变的一部分，我行已决定从
2017 年 4 季度起，陆续停止相关分支机构的在行式 ATM 机的服务。68 大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告|总行
上海市浦东新区银城路116号、
128号 
邮编: 200120
电话: (86) (21) 6061 8888
传真: (86) (21) 6886 0908
SWIFT: UOVBCNSH
网址: www.uobchina.com.cn上海分行
上海市浦东新区银城路116号、
128号102室
邮编: 200120
电话: (86) (21) 6061 8288
传真: (86) (21) 6886 1113静安支行(上海)
上海市静安区南京西路1468号
中欣大厦1P01-02室、201-203室
邮编: 200040
电话: (86) (21) 6080 9366
传真: (86) (21) 6289 1001外滩支行(上海)
上海市黄浦区中山东一路20号
邮编: 200002
电话: (86) (21) 2319 8388
传真: (86) (21) 6323 3022上海自贸试验区支行
（对公业务）
上海自由贸易试验区银城路116、
128号 
大华银行大厦六层602室 
邮编: 200120
电话: (86) (21) 6061 8176 
传真: (86) (21) 6886 0906Shanghai Pilot Free Trade Zone 
Sub-branch (Wholesale Banking 
Only)
Room 602, 6 Floor, 
No. 116, 128 Yincheng Road, 
Pilot Free Trade Zone,
Shanghai 200120
Tel: (86) (21) 6061 8176 
Fax: (86) (21) 6886 0906Head Office
No. 116, 128 Yincheng Road,
Pudong New Area,
Shanghai 200120
Tel: (86) (21) 6061 8888
Fax: (86) (21) 6886 0908
SWIFT: UOVBCNSH
Website: www.uobchina.com.cn北京分行
北京市朝阳区景华南街5号
远洋光华国际C栋
1层102单元
25层01-03单元、05-09单元
邮编: 100020
电话: (86) (10) 5879 2626
传真: (86) (10) 8590 6725Shanghai Branch
Room 102, 
No. 116, 128 Yincheng Road,
Pudong New Area,
Shanghai 200120
Tel: (86) (21) 6061 8288
Fax: (86) (21) 6886 1113Jing’an Sub-branch (Shanghai)
Room 1P01-02, 201-203, 
United Plaza,
No. 1468 Nanjing Road West, 
Jingan District,
Shanghai 200040
Tel: (86) (21) 6080 9366
Fax: (86) (21) 6289 1001Bund Sub-branch (Shanghai)
No. 20 Zhong Shan Dong Yi Road,
Huangpu District,
Shanghai 200002
Tel: (86) (21) 2319 8388
Fax: (86) (21) 6323 3022东城支行(北京)
北京市东城区朝阳门北大街7号
第五广场C座1层108单元
邮编: 100010
电话: (86) (10) 8418 3688
传真: (86) (10) 8418 3668燕莎中心支行(北京)
北京市朝阳区亮马桥路50号
燕莎中心一号楼S104、S105单元
及C806、C807单元
邮编: 100125
电话: (86) (10) 8489 3888
传真: (86) (10) 6461 5750成都分行
成都市锦江区东大街
下东大街段99号
平安金融中心1栋1层1号及1栋2单
元12层9号9单元
邮编: 610021
电话: (86) (28) 6871 1688
传真: (86) (28) 8653 1878广州分行（对公业务）
广州市天河区天河北路183-187号
大都会广场1106-1114单元
邮编: 510075
电话: (86) (20) 8755 8787
传真: (86) (20) 8755 6661营 业 网 点
Our NetworkBeijing Branch 
Unit 102 First Floor and
Unit 01-03, 05-09 25 Floor,
Tower C Office Park,
No. 5 Jing Hua South Street,
Chaoyang District,
Beijing 100020
Tel: (86) (10) 5879 2626
Fax: (86) (10) 8590 6725Dongcheng Sub-branch 
(Beijing)
Unit 108, Tower C
The Fifth Square,
No. 7 Chaoyangmen North Avenue,
Beijing 100010
Tel: (86) (10) 8418 3688
Fax: (86) (10) 8418 3668Lufthansa Centre Sub-branch 
(Beijing) 
S104/S105 and C806/C807
No. 50 Liangmaqiao Road,
Chaoyang District,
Beijing 100125
Tel: (86) (10) 8489 3888
Fax: (86) (10) 6461 5750Chengdu Branch
Suite 1, First Floor, Building 1 and 
Suite 9-9, 12 Floor, Unit 2,  Building 1
PingAn Finance Centre, 
No. 99 Dong Da Street,
Jinjiang District,
Chengdu 610021
Tel:  (86) (28) 6871 1688
Fax: (86) (28) 8653 1878Guangzhou Branch (Wholesale 
Banking Only)
Unit 1106 - 1114 Metro Plaza,
No. 183-187, Tianhe Bei Road,
Tianhe District,
Guangzhou 510075
Tel: (86) (20) 8755 8787
Fax: (86) (20) 8755 6661UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|69苏州分行（对公业务）
苏州工业园区华池街88号
晋合广场1幢1801室
邮编: 215000
电话: (86) (512) 6298 5200
传真: (86) (512) 8686 2006昆明分行（对公业务）
昆明市五华区崇仁街1号
东方柏丰首座商务中心东楼21层
2105、2106号
邮编: 650000
电话: (86) (871) 6555 0777
传真: (86) (871) 6361 6191Suzhou Branch (Wholesale 
Banking Only)
Unit 1801, Tower 1 Jinghope Square,
No. 88 Huachi Street,
Suzhou Industrial Park (SIP),
Suzhou 215000
Tel: (86) (512) 6298 5200
Fax: (86) (512) 8686 2006Kunming Branch (Wholesale 
Banking Only)
Unit 2105 & 2106, 21 Floor, 
East Tower MASTER, 
No. 1 Chongren Street, 
Wuhua District,
Kunming 650000
Tel: (86) (871) 6555 0777
Fax: (86) (871) 6361 6191沈阳分行
沈阳市沈河区北站路61号
沈阳财富中心项目A座第21层
06/07号
邮编: 110013
电话: (86) (24) 3121 2168
传真: (86) (24) 3116 2078深圳分行（对公业务）
深圳市深南东路5002号
信兴广场地王商业中心
13楼02、03、05、06 单元
邮编: 518008
电话: (86) (755) 2294 5688
传真: (86) (755) 8246 3326厦门分行
厦门市湖滨北路19号
大华银行大厦1-2层
邮编: 361012
电话: (86) (592) 508 1601
传真: (86) (592) 508 1605天津分行
天津市南开区长江道与南开三马
路交口融汇广场2-1-2207、2208、
2209
邮编: 300100
电话: (86) (22) 8701 7070
传真: (86) (22) 8738 0500杭州分行
杭州市西湖区天目山路181号
天际大厦201、203室
邮编: 310013
电话: (86) (571) 2809 0666
传真: (86) (571) 8190 9619重庆分行
重庆市渝中区民生路235号
海航保利国际中心写字楼31层
A单元
邮编: 400010
电话: (86) (23) 6037 2888
传真: (86) (23) 6037 2788Shenyang Branch
Unit 06/07, 21 Floor,
Tower A Fortune Plaza,
No. 61 Beizhan Road,
Shenhe District,
Shenyang 110013
Tel: (86) (24) 3121 2168
Fax: (86) (24) 3116 2078Shenzhen Branch (Wholesale 
Banking Only)
Unit 02, 03, 05, 06, 13 Floor, 
Di Wang Commercial Center, 
Shun Hing Square, 
No. 5002 Shennan Road East,
Shenzhen 518008
Tel: (86) (755) 2294 5688
Fax: (86) (755) 8246 3326Xiamen Branch
1-2 Floor United Overseas Bank 
Building, No. 19 Hubin Bei Road,
Xiamen 361012
Tel: (86) (592) 508 1601
Fax: (86) (592) 508 1605Tianjin Branch
Unit 2-1-2207, 2208, 2209, 
RongHui Plaza,
ChangJiang Road, 
Nankai District,
Tianjin 300100
Tel: (86) (22) 8701 7070
Fax: (86) (22) 873 80500Hangzhou Branch
Room 201 and 203, 
No. 181 Tian Mu Shan Road, 
Xihu District,
Hangzhou 310013
Tel: (86) (571) 2809 0666
Fax: (86) (571) 8190 9619Chongqing Branch
Unit A, 31 Floor,
HNA-POLY International Centre,
No. 235 Min Sheng Road, 
Yu Zhong District,
Chongqing 400010 
Tel: (86) (23) 6037 2888
Fax: (86) (23) 6037 278870 大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告|大华银行（中国）有限公司
2017 年 12 月 31 日
United Overseas Bank (China) Limited
31 December 2017已审财务报表
Audited Financial Statements一、审计报告72AUDITORS’ REPORTAUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS二、财务报表
 
     1. 资产负债表2. 利润表77
 
78                                                            
 
79                                           
 
80                                              
 
82                                           
     5. 财务报表附注3. 所有者权益变动表4. 现金流量表Balance SheetIncome StatementStatement of Changes in EquityStatement of Cash FlowsNotes to Financial Statements审计报告
Auditors’ Report72|大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|73审计报告
Auditors’ Report74|大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告Auditors’ Report
Ernst & Young Hua Ming (2018) Shen Zi No 60658622_B01
United Overseas Bank (China) LimitedTo the Board of Directors of United Overseas Bank (China) 
Limited:(I) Opinion
We have audited the accompanying financial statements of 
United Overseas Bank (China) Limited (hereinafter referred 
to as “the Bank”), which comprise the balance sheet as at 
31 December 2017, the income statement, the statement of 
changes in equity and the statement of cash flows for the 
year then ended, and notes to the financial statements.In  our  opinion,  the  accompanying  financial  statements 
present fairly, in all material respects, United Overseas Bank 
(China) Limited’s financial position as at 31 December 2017 and 
United Overseas Bank (China) Limited’s financial performance 
and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with 
Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises (ASBEs).(II) Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with China Standards 
on Auditing (CSAs). Our responsibilities under those standards 
are further described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the 
audit of the financial statements section of our report. We 
are independent of United Overseas Bank (China) Limited in 
accordance with China Code of Ethics for Certified Public 
Accountants  (the  Code),  and  we  have  fulfilled  our  other 
ethical responsibilities in accordance with the Code.  We 
believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient 
and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.(III)  Responsibilities  of  the  management  and 
those charged with governance for the financial 
statements
The management of United Overseas Bank (China) Limited 
is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of 
the  financial  statements  in  accordance  with  ASBEs,  and 
for designing, implementing and maintaining such internal 
control  as  the  management  determines  is  necessary  to 
enable the preparation of financial statements that are free 
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.In  preparing  the  financial  statements,  the  management 
is responsible for assessing United Overseas Bank (China) 
Limited’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, 
as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the 
going concern basis of accounting, unless the management 
either  intends  to  liquidate  United  Overseas  Bank  (China) 
Limited or to cease operations or has no realistic alternative 
but to do so.Those  charged  with  governance  are  responsible  for 
overseeing United Overseas Bank (China) Limited’s financial 
reporting process.(IV) Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the 
financial statements 
Our  objectives  are  to  obtain  reasonable  assurance  about 
whether the financial statements as a whole are free from 
material  misstatement,  whether  due  to  fraud  or  error, 
and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. 
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a 
guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with CSAs 
will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. 
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are generally 
considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they 
could reasonably be expected to influence the economic 
decisions  of  users  taken  on  the  basis  of  these  financial 
statements.As part of an audit in accordance with CSAs, we exercise 
professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism 
throughout the audit. We also:(1)  Identify  and  assess  the  risks  of  material  misstatement 
of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, 
design and perform audit procedures responsive to those 
risks,  and  obtain  audit  evidence  that  is  sufficient  and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of 
not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is 
higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve 
collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, 
or the override of internal control.(2)  Obtain  an  understanding  of  internal  control  relevant 
to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are 
appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose 
of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of internal 
control.UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|75(3) Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used 
and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related 
disclosures made by the management.(4) Conclude on the appropriateness of the management’s 
use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on 
the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty 
exists  related  to  events  or  conditions  that  may  cast 
significant doubt on United Overseas Bank (China) Limited’s 
ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a 
material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention 
in  our  auditor’s  report  to  the  related  disclosures  in  the 
financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to 
modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit 
evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. 
However,  future  events  or  conditions  may  cause  United 
Overseas  Bank  (China)  Limited  to  cease  to  continue  as  a 
going concern.(5) Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content 
of the financial statements, including the disclosures, and 
whether the financial statements represent the underlying 
transactions  and  events  in  a  manner  that  achieves  fair 
presentation.We  communicate  with  those  charged  with  governance 
regarding,  among  other  matters,  the  planned  scope  and 
timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including 
any  significant  deficiencies  in  internal  control  that  we 
identify during our audit.Ernst & Young Hua Ming LLP, Shanghai BranchChinese Certified Public Accountant: Yan, ShengweiShanghai   ChinaChinese Certified Public Accountant: Wang, Wenyan23 March 201876|大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告资产负债表
Balance Sheet
2017 年 12 月 31 日  31 December 2017
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)附注六
Notes 62017年12月31日
31-12-20172016年12月31日
31-12-2016资产：ASSETS:现金及存放中央银行款项Cash and deposit with the central bank贵金属存放同业款项拆出资金Precious metalsDue from banksPlacements with banks and other financial institutions以公允价值计量且其变动计入当期
损益的金融资产Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss衍生金融资产Derivative financial assets买入返售金融资产Reverse repurchase financial assets应收利息发放贷款和垫款可供出售金融资产固定资产无形资产Interest receivablesLoans and advances to customersAvailable-for-sale financial assetsFixed assetsIntangible assets递延所得税资产Deferred tax assets其他资产资产总计负债：Other assetsTOTAL ASSETSLIABILITIES:同业及其他金融机构存放款项Due to banks and other financial institutions拆入资金衍生金融负债吸收存款应付职工薪酬应交税费应付利息其他负债负债合计所有者权益：实收资本资本公积其他综合收益盈余公积一般风险准备未分配利润所有者权益合计：Placements from banks and other financial institutionsDerivative financial liabilitiesCustomer depositsPayroll payablesTax payablesInterest payablesOther liabilitiesTOTAL LIABILITIESEQUITY:Paid-up capitalCapital reserveOther comprehensive incomeSurplus reservesGeneral reservesRetained earningsTOTAL EQUITY:12345678910111213151651718192021222324252627负债及所有者权益总计TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY载于第 82 页至 154 页的财务报表附注为本财务报表的组成部分
The notes on pages 82 to 154 form an integral part of these financial statements.7,169,538,272-5,022,549,8349,527,005,2496,874,732,44526,465,0004,281,972,7408,952,621,5622,486,366,8621,115,977,9445,576,168,4271,344,195,000239,741,67527,136,596,7874,369,225,27339,050,984118,548,68351,894,939418,174,4662,401,319,415536,900,000187,536,44323,887,216,0593,757,637,92039,015,380100,945,39957,279,711166,791,81863,499,056,45152,386,411,836874,157,35919,274,817,0045,659,819,81530,272,812,21588,027,40552,797,524298,396,936184,710,2103,106,329,14314,301,763,7212,647,562,28525,185,305,75173,564,95844,184,847290,141,18675,897,77856,705,538,46845,724,749,6695,500,000,0005,500,000,0009,975,150(7,477,010)100,026,507708,458,438482,534,8986,793,517,98363,499,056,4517,190,414(544,152)86,426,113588,421,509480,168,2836,661,662,16752,386,411,836UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|77所有者权益变动表
Statement of Changes in Equity
 2017 年度  For the year ended 31 December 2017
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)实收资本
Paid-up 
capital资本公积
Capital
 reserves其他综合收益
Other com- 
prehensive 
income盈余公积
Surplus 
reserves一般风险准备
General
 reserves未分配利润
Retained 
earnings合计
Total2016年12月31日余额Balance as at 31 December 20165,500,000,0007,190,414(544,152)86,426,113588,421,509480,168,283 6,661,662,1672,784,736(6,932,858)13,600,394120,036,9292,366,615131,855,816本年增减变动金额Movements during the year（一）综合收益总额(i) Total comprehensive income（二）所有者投入和
           减少资本(ii) Injection of funds by and 
distribution of funds to the investor1.股份支付计入所有者
权益的金额1. Share-based payment2.所有者投入资本2. Investment by equity owners（三）利润分配(iii) Profit appropriation1.提取盈余公积1. Appropriation to surplus reserves2.提取一般风险准备2. Appropriation to general reserves---------(6,932,858)2,784,7362,784,736------------------13,600,394120,036,929(133,637,323)13,600,394-(13,600,394)-120,036,929(120,036,929)136,003,938129,071,080-2,784,736--2,784,736----2017年12月31日余额Balance as at 31 December 20175,500,000,0009,975,150(7,477,010)100,026,507708,458,438482,534,898 6,793,517,9832016 年度  For the year ended 31 December 2016
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)实收资本
Paid-up 
capital资本公积
Capital
 reserves其他综合收益
Other com- 
prehensive 
income盈余公积
Surplus 
reserves一般风险准备
General
 reserves未分配利润
Retained 
earnings合计
Total2015年12月31日余额Balance as at 31 December 20155,500,000,00012,034,86415,982,55082,099,792564,261,213465,391,6896,639,770,108本年增减变动金额Movements during the year（一）综合收益总额(i) Total comprehensive income（二）所有者投入和
           减少资本(ii) Injection of funds by and 
distribution of funds to the investor1.股份支付计入所有者
权益的金额1. Share-based payment（三）利润分配(iii) Profit appropriation1.提取盈余公积1. Appropriation to surplus reserves2.提取一般风险准备2. Appropriation to general reserves-------(4,844,450)(16,526,702)4,326,32124,160,29614,776,59421,892,059-(16,526,702)(4,844,450)(4,844,450)--------------43,263,21126,736,509--(4,844,450)(4,844,450)4,326,32124,160,296(28,486,617)4,326,321-(4,326,321)-24,160,296(24,160,296)---2016年12月31日余额Balance as at 31 December 20165,500,000,0007,190,414(544,152)86,426,113588,421,509480,168,2836,661,662,167载于第 82 页至第 154 页的财务报表附注为本财务报表的组成部分
The notes on pages 82 to 154 form an integral part of these financial statements.UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|79现金流量表
Statement of Cash Flows 
2017 年度  For the year ended 31 December 2017
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)附注六Notes 620172016一、经营活动产生的现金流量1.CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATINGT ACTIVITIES存放中央银行款项净减少额Net decrease in due from the Central bank24,464,542-存放同业款项净减少额Net decrease in due from banks100,000,000200,000,000吸收存款和同业及其他金融机构存放
 款项净增加额Net increase in customer deposits and due to banks and other 
   financial institutions拆入资金净增加额Net increase in placements from banks and other financial 
   institutions2,849,753,4113,713,027,1054,918,933,5653,613,933,840收取的利息、手续费及佣金的现金Cash received from interest, service fee and commission1,811,845,1921,532,873,494收到其他与经营活动有关的现金Cash received from other operating activities229,757,911356,229,846经营活动现金流入小计Sub-total of cash inflows from operating activities9,934,754,6219,416,064,285存放中央银行款项净增加额Net increase in due from the Central Bank-2,203,416,652拆出资金净增加额Net increase in placements with banks and other financial 
   institutions823,691,9983,913,780,725发放贷款和垫款净增加额Net increase in loans and advances to customers3,374,488,797
3,374,488,797695,398,860
695,398,860支付的利息、手续费及佣金的现金Payments made for interest,service fee and commission859,909,620766,644,591支付给职工及为职工支付的现金Cash paid to and on behalf of employees545,659,547535,505,883支付的各项税费Cash paid for all types of taxes85,396,18839,826,710支付的其他与经营活动有关的现金Cash paid for other operating activities860,276,803266,834,832经营活动现金流出小计Sub-total of cash outflows from operating activities6,549,422,9538,421,408,253经营活动产生的现金流量净额Net cash flows from operating activities373,385,331,668994,656,03280 大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告|二、 投资活动产生的现金流量2. CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES收回投资收到的现金Cash received from maturity of investments14,550,000,00010,692,628,250取得投资收益收到的现金Cash received from investment income231,211,160220,113,976处置固定资产和其他长期资产收
 回的现金Proceeds from disposal of fixed assets and other long term 
    assets1,289,5473,078,849投资活动现金流入小计Sub-total of cash inflows from investing activities14,782,500,70710,915,821,075投资所支付的现金Cash paid for investment14,337,012,1049,867,308,544购建固定资产和其他长期资产支付
 的现金Cash paid for purchase of fixed assets and other long term
    assets48,251,836126,831,018投资活动现金流出小计Sub-total of cash outflows from investing activities14,385,263,9409,994,139,562投资活动产生的现金流量净额Net cash flows from investing activities397,236,767921,681,513三、筹资活动产生的现金流量3. CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES吸收投资收到的现金Cash received from capital injection筹资活动现金流入小计Sub-total of cash inflows from financing activities筹资活动产生的现金流量净额Net cash flows from financing activities四、汇率变动对现金及现金等价物
        的影响4. EFFECT OF EXCHANGE RATE CHANGES ON CASH AND  
    CASH EQUIVALENTS五、 现金及现金等价物净增加额5. NET INCREASE IN CASH AND CASH 
    EQUIVALENTS加： 年初现金及现金等价物余额Add: Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year六、 年末现金及现金等价物余额6. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF THE YEAR3738------104,719,329(76,733,691)3,887,287,7641,839,603,85410,439,445,1678,599,841,31314,326,732,93110,439,445,167载于第 82 页至第 154 页的财务报表附注为本财务报表的组成部分
The notes on pages 80 to 152 form an integral part of these financial statements.UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|81财务报表附注
Notes to the Financial Statements
2017 年度  For the year ended 31 December 2017
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)一、公司的基本情况1. Corporate information大华银行（中国）有限公司（以下简称“本公司”或“大华银行（中
国）”）是由大华银行有限公司（以下简称“大华银行”）在中华
人民共和国上海市成立的外商独资银行。经中国银行业监督管理委员会（以下简称“银监会”）于 2007 年
4 月 5 日批准，大华银行按《中华人民共和国外资银行管理条例》( 以
下简称“《管理条例》”）、《中华人民共和国外资银行管理条例
实施细则》( 以下简称“《实施细则》”）的有关规定，在上海市
筹建由其单独出资的外商独资银行——大华银行（中国）有限公司，
并将其中国境内的大华银行上海分行、北京分行、深圳分行、广州
分行、成都分行、厦门分行、沈阳分行及上海静安支行（以下简称
“原中国区分行及支行”）改制为大华银行（中国）的分支机构。本 公 司 持 有 银 监 会 颁 发 的 金 融 许 可 证， 机 构 编 码 为：
B0308H131000001 号，持有上海市工商行政管理局核准颁发的企业
法人营业执照，统一社会信用代码为：913100006694147236。注册
地址为中国（上海）自由贸易试验区银城路 116 号、128 号大华银
行大厦三层、五层 501 室（实际四层）、十三层（实际十二层）、
十五层（实际十三层）、十六层（实际十四层）、十七层（实际
十五层）、十八层（实际十六层）。注册资本为人民币 55 亿元。根据本公司营业执照的规定，本公司经营期限为不约定期限。本公
司主要从事经有关监管机构批准的外汇业务和人民币业务。2008
年 1 月 2 日为本公司与原中国区分行的业务切换日。截至 2017 年 12 月 31 日，除在上海设立的大华银行（中国）有限公
司总行外，本公司已在上海、北京、深圳、广州、成都、厦门、沈阳、
天津、杭州、重庆、苏州、昆明设立了 12 家分行及 4 家支行。United Overseas Bank (China) Ltd. (hereinafter referred to 
as The Bank or UOB (China)) is a wholly foreign-owned bank 
established in Shanghai, People's Republic of China (PRC), by 
United Overseas Bank (UOB).In  accordance  with  the Regulation of the PRC on the 
Administration of Foreign-funded Banks (the Regulation), and 
the Detailed Rules on the Implementation of Regulation of 
the PRC on the Administration of Foreign-funded Banks  (the 
Implementation),  China  Banking  Regulatory  Committee 
(CBRC) granted approval to UOB on 5 April 2007 to set up 
a wholly-owned subsidiary bank, UOB (China), in Shanghai 
by converting its Shanghai Branch, Beijing Branch, Shenzhen 
Branch, Guangzhou Branch, Chengdu Branch, Xiamen Branch, 
Shenyang Branch and Jing’an sub-branch (collectively known 
as the Former PRC Branches).The  Bank  obtained  the  licence  for  conducting  financial 
transaction from the CBRC (Institution Code: B0308H131000001), 
and obtained its business licence (Uniform Social Credit Code: 
913100006694147236)  from  Shanghai  Administration  for 
Industry and Commerce. The registered address is 3F, Unit 
501, F13, F15, F16, F17, and F18, No.116 and 128 Yincheng Road, 
China (Shanghai) Pilot Free Trade Zone. The registered capital 
of the Bank is RMB 5.5 billion.The  Bank  obtained  its  business  licence  issued  with  an 
unlimited operating period. The main businesses of the Bank 
are Renminbi and foreign currency businesses as approved 
by  relevant  regulatory  authorities.  The  date  of  business 
conversion from former PRC branches to UOB (China) was on 
2 January 2008.As of 31 December 2017, besides the Head Office incorporated in 
Shanghai, the Bank has set up 12 branches and 4 sub-branches 
respectively  in  Shanghai,  Beijing,  Shenzhen,  Guangzhou, 
Chengdu, Xiamen, Shenyang, Tianjin, Hangzhou, Chongqing, 
Suzhou and Kunming.82 大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告|二、编制基础本财务报表按照中华人民共和国财政部 ( 以下简称“财政部”) 颁布
的《企业会计准则——基本准则》以及其后颁布及修订的具体会计
准则、应用指南、解释以及其他相关规定 ( 统称“企业会计准则”)
编制。本财务报表以持续经营为基础列报。2. Preparation basis of the financial statementsThe financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with  the Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises-Basic 
Standard and  the  specific  standards,  the  implementation 
guidance, interpretations and other relevant provisions issued 
and revised subsequently by the Ministry of Finance of PRC 
(MOF) (collectively referred to as Accounting Standards for 
Business Enterprises).编制本财务报表时，除某些金融工具外，均以历史成本为计价原则。
资产如果发生减值，则按照相关规定计提相应的减值准备。The  financial  statements  have  been  prepared  on  a  going 
concern basis.三、遵循企业会计准则的声明本财务报表符合企业会计准则的要求，真实、完整地反映了本公司
2017 年 12 月 31 日的财务状况以及 2017 年度的经营成果和现金流量。
 
四、重要会计政策和会计估计1. 会计年度
本公司的会计年度采用公历年度，即每年自 1 月 1 日起至 12 月 31 日止。2. 记账本位币
本公司的记账本位币和编制本财务报表所采用的货币均为人民币。除
有特别说明外，均以人民币元为单位列示。3. 现金及现金等价物
现金，是指本公司的库存现金以及可以随时用于支付的存款；现金
等价物，是指本公司持有的期限短、流动性强、易于转换为已知金
额的现金、价值变动风险很小的投资。The  Bank’s  financial  statements  have  been  prepared  on 
an  accrual  basis  under  the  historical  cost  as  the  basis  of 
measurement, except for some financial instruments. If the 
assets  are  impaired,  corresponding  provisions  should  be 
recognised in accordance with relevant standrds.3. Compliance with the Accounting Standards for 
Business EnterprisesThe financial statements of the Bank have been prepared 
in accordance with the Accounting Standards for Business 
Enterprises, and present fairly and fully, the financial position 
of the Bank as of 31 December 2017 and the results of the 
operations and the cash flows for the year then ended.4. Significant accounting policies and estimates(1) Accounting year
The  accounting  year  of  the  Bank  is  from  1  January  to  31 
December of each calendar year.现金等价物包括原到期日不超过三个月的存放中央银行的非限定性
款项、存放同业及其他金融机构款项、拆放同业及其他金融机构款
项、买入返售款项，以及变现能力强、易于转换为可知数额的现金、
价值变动风险小，而且由购买日起三个月内到期的债券投资。(2) Functional currency
The  Bank’s  functional  currency  is  Renminbi  (RMB).  These 
financial statements are presented in RMB and all amounts 
are stated in RMB, unless otherwise stated.(3) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash comprises cash on hand and demand deposits; cash 
equivalents are short-term, highly liquid investments which 
are readily convertible to known amounts of cash, and which 
are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value.Cash equivalents comprise non-statutory deposits due from 
central banks, amounts due from banks and other financial 
institutions, reverse repurchase agreements maturing within 
three months, and short-term highly liquid investments that 
are  readily  convertible  into  known  amounts  of  cash,  and 
which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value, 
which have an original maturity date within three months.UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|834. 外币折算
本公司对于发生的外币交易，将外币金额折算为记账本位币金额。外币交易在初始确认时，采用交易发生日的即期汇率将外币金额折
算为记账本位币金额。于资产负债表日，对于外币货币性项目采用
资产负债表日即期汇率折算，由此产生的结算和货币性项目折算差
额计入当期损益。以历史成本计量的外币非货币性项目，仍采用交
易发生日的即期汇率折算，不改变其记账本位币金额。以公允价值
计量的外币非货币性项目，采用公允价值确定日的即期汇率折算，
由此产生的差额根据非货币性项目的性质计入当期损益或其他综合
收益。5. 固定资产
固定资产仅在与其有关的经济利益很可能流入本公司，且其成本能
够可靠地计量时才予以确认。与固定资产有关的后续支出，符合该
确认条件的，计入固定资产成本，并终止确认被替换部分的账面价值；
否则，在发生时计入当期损益。固定资产按照成本进行初始计量。购置固定资产的成本包括购买价
款、相关税费、使固定资产达到预定可使用状态前所发生的可直接
归属于该项资产的其他支出。固定资产的折旧采用年限平均法计提，
各类固定资产的使用寿命、预计净残值率及年折旧率如下：(4) Foreign currency transactions
Transactions  in  foreign  currencies  are  translated  into  the 
reporting currency accordingly.Foreign  currency  transactions  are  translated  using  the 
exchange rates ruling at the transaction date. Subsequent 
to  initial  recognition,  monetary  assets  and  liabilities 
denominated  in  foreign  currencies  are  translated  at  the 
applicable  exchange  rates  ruling  at  the  balance  sheet 
date. Exchange differences arising from the settlement of 
monetary items or from translation of monetary items at 
balance sheet date are recognised in the income statement. 
Non-monetary items measured at historical cost in a foreign 
currency are translated using the exchange rates ruling at 
the dates of the initial transactions; Non-monetary items 
measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated 
using the exchange rates when the fair value is determined, 
the exchange difference thus resulted is recognised in the 
income statement or other comprehensive income of the 
current period.(5) Fixed assets
The fixed assets can be recognised only when the economic 
benefits related to fixed assets are likely to flow into the 
Bank, and the cost of fixed assets can be measured reliably. 
Subsequent expenditure can be recognised as the cost of 
fixed assets when the recognition criteria set above is met, 
and  the  replaced  carrying  amount  shall  be  derecognised. 
Otherwise, such expenditure is to be charged to the income 
statement in the period when it is incurred.Fixed  assets  are  initially  measured  at  cost.  The  cost  of 
a  purchased  fixed  asset  comprises  the  purchase  price, 
relevant taxes and any directly attributable expenditure for 
bringing the asset to working condition for its intended use. 
Depreciation is charged to profit or loss on a straight-line 
basis. And the respective estimated useful lives, estimated 
residual values and annual depreciation rates of fixed assets 
are set by the Bank considering the nature and usage of fixed 
assets.使用寿命Estimated usefullives预计净残值率年折旧率Estimated residualAnnual depreciationvaluerate房屋及建筑物
Properties and buildings办公及电脑设备
Office equipment and computers运输设备
Motor vehicles50 年5 年5 年---2%20%20%本公司在每个资产负债表日均对固定资产的使用寿命、预计净残值
和折旧方法进行复核，必要时进行调整。Residual values, useful lives and depreciation methods are 
reviewed and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet 
date.84 大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告|6. 在建工程
在建工程成本按实际工程支出确定，包括在建期间发生的各项必要
工程支出以及其他相关费用等。
 
在建工程在达到预定可使用状态时转入固定资产、无形资产或其他
长期资产。7. 无形资产
无形资产仅在与其有关的经济利益很可能流入本公司，且其成本能
够可靠地计量时才予以确认，并以成本进行初始计量。无形资产按照其能为本公司带来经济利益的期限确定使用寿命，无
法预见其为本公司带来经济利益期限的作为使用寿命不确定的无形
资产。本公司的无形资产为软件，其使用年限为 10 年。使用寿命有限的无形资产，在其使用寿命内采用直线法摊销。本公
司在每个资产负债表日均对使用寿命有限的无形资产的使用寿命及
摊销方法进行复核，必要时进行调整。8. 长期待摊费用
长期待摊费用采用直线法摊销。以经营性租赁方式租入固定资产发生的租赁费用，根据合同期限平
均摊销。其他长期待摊费用根据合同或协议与受益期限孰短原则确
定摊销期限，并平均摊销。如果长期摊销的费用项目不能使以后会计期间受益的，将尚未摊销
的项目的摊余价值全部转入当期损益。9. 金融工具
金融工具，是指形成一个企业的金融资产，并形成其他单位的金融
负债或权益工具的合同。本公司于成为金融工具合同的一方时确认一项金融资产或金融负债。(6) Construction in progress
The cost of construction in progress is determined according 
to the actual expenditure for the construction, including all 
necessary expenditure and other related expenses incurred 
during the construction period.The costs are transferred to fixed assets, intangible assets 
or other long  term assets when the asset is ready  for its 
intended use.(7) Intangible assets
The  intangible  assets  can  be  recognised  only  when  the 
economic benefits related to intangible assets are likely to 
flow into the Bank, and the cost of intangible assets can be 
measured reliably. While the intangible assets obtained in 
a business combination under common control should be 
measured at fair value if the cost of intangible assets can be 
measured reliably.The useful life of intangible assets is determined according 
to the economic useful lives; those intangible assets with 
unforeseeable economic lives can be classified as intangible 
assets with infinite useful lives.The Bank’s intangible assets comprise  computer software 
with a 10-year useful life.For the intangible assets with finite useful lives, amortisation 
is charged to income statement on a straight line. The useful 
life and amortisation method for intangible assets with finite 
useful lives are reviewed at each balance sheet date, with 
proper adjustments made by the Bank when necessary.(8) Long-term deferred expenses
Long-term deferred expenses are amortized by the straight 
line method.Rental fee of the operating lease of fixed assets is amortised 
on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease contract. 
Other  long-term  deferred  expenses  are  amortised  on  a 
straight-line basis over the lower period of lease period or 
useful life.The carrying amount that has not been amortised is charged 
to  income  statement  if  the  expenditure  does  not  bring 
benefits to subsequent accounting periods.(9) Financial instruments
A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to a 
financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity 
instrument of another entity.A financial asset or a financial liability is recognised when the 
Bank becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the 
financial instrument.UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|85(10) Financial assets
Financial assets are classified as follows: financial assets at 
fair value through profit or loss; held-to-maturity investment; 
loans and receivables and available-for-sale financial assets. 
Financial assets are initially recognised at their fair value. 
For financial assets at fair value through profit and loss, the 
related  transaction  costs  are  directly  charged  to  income 
statement of the current period. Transaction costs relating 
to financial assets of other categories are included in the 
amount initially recognised.Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
Financial  assets  at  fair  value  through  profit  or  loss  are 
financial assets which are either classified as held for trading 
or designated by the Bank as such upon initial recognition. 
Financial assets are classified as held for trading if they meet 
any of the following: 1) acquired for the purpose of sale in 
the short term; 2) part of a portfolio of identifiable financial 
instruments  that  are  collectively  managed,  and  there  is 
objective evidence indicating that the enterprise recently 
managed  this  portfolio  for  the  purpose  of  short-term 
profits; 3) derivatives unless they are designated as effective 
hedging instruments, they are financial guarantee contracts 
or they are derivatives that linked to and must be settled by 
delivery of equity instruments that do not have a quoted 
market price in an active market and whose fair value cannot 
be reliably measured. For such kind of financial assets, fair 
values are adopted for subsequent measurement.  All realised 
or unrealised gains or losses on these financial assets are 
recognised in the income statement of the current period.Financial  assets/liabilities  are  designated  as  fair  value 
through profit and loss only if they meet any of the following 
criteria:(i)      The  designation  eliminates  or  significantly  reduces  a 
measurement or recognition inconsistency that would 
otherwise arise from measuring the financial assets or 
liabilities on a different basis.(ii)     In  accordance  with  documented risk  management  or 
investment strategy, this financial assets portfolio are 
managed, and evaluated at fair value and reported on that 
basis to key management personnel.(iii)   The  financial  instrument  contains  one  or  several 
embedded derivatives, unless the embedded derivatives 
do not significantly modify the cash flow of the mixed 
instrument or it is clear that they would not be separately 
recorded.(iv)  The financial instrument contains an embedded instrument, 
which  need  to  be  separated  but  is  unable  to  be 
measured separately at initial recognition or subsequent 
measurement at each subsequent balance sheet dates.10. 金融资产
本公司的金融资产于初始确认时分成以下四类：以公允价值计量且
其变动计入当期损益的金融资产；持有至到期投资；贷款及应收款
项类金融资产和可供出售金融资产。金融资产在初始确认时以公允
价值计量。对于以公允价值计量且其变动计入当期损益的金融资产，
相关交易费用直接计入当期损益，其他类别的金融资产相关交易费
用计入其初始确认金额。以公允价值计量且其变动计入当期损益的金融资产
以公允价值计量且其变动计入当期损益的金融资产包括为交易而持
有的金融资产和初始确认时就被指定为以公允价值计量且其变动计
入当期损益的金融资产。为交易而持有的金融资产是指满足下列条
件之一的金融资产：1) 取得该金融资产的目的是为了在短期内出售；
2) 属于进行集中管理的可辨认金融工具组合的一部分，且有客观证
据表明企业近期采用短期获利方式对该组合进行管理；3) 属于衍生
工具，但是被指定为有效套期工具的衍生工具、属于财务担保合同
的衍生工具、与在活跃市场中没有报价且其公允价值不能可靠计量
的权益工具投资挂钩并须通过交付该权益工具结算的衍生工具除外。
这类金融资产在后续计量期间以公允价值计量。所有已实现和未实
现的损益均记入当期损益。只有符合以下条件之一，金融资产或金融负债才可在初始计量时指
定为以公允价值计量且变动计入损益的金融资产或金融负债：(i)   该项指定可以消除或明显减少由于金融资产或金融负债的计量基
础不同所导致的相关利得或损失在确认或计量方面不一致的情
况。(ii)  风险管理或投资策略的正式书面文件已载明，该金融工具组合以公允价值为基础进行管理、评价并向关键管理人员报告。(iii) 包含一项或多项嵌入衍生工具的混合工具，除非嵌入衍生工具不
会对混合工具的现金流量产生重大改变，或者所嵌入的衍生工
具明显不应当从相关混合工具中分拆。(iv) 包含需要分拆但无法在取得或后续的资产负债表日对其进行单独计量的嵌入工具的混合工具。86 大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告|持有至到期投资
持有至到期投资是指到期日固定、回收金额固定或可确定，且本公
司有明确意图和能力持有至到期的非衍生金融资产。对于此类金融
资产，采用实际利率法，按照摊余成本进行后续计量，其终止确认、
发生减值或摊销产生的利得或损失，均计入当期损益。如果本公司
将尚未到期的某项持有至到期投资在本会计年度内出售或重分类为
可供出售金融资产的金额，相对于该类投资在出售或重分类前的总
额较大时，该类投资的剩余部分将会重新分类为可供出售金融资产，
且在本会计年度及以后两个完整的会计年度内不得再将该金融资产
划分为持有至到期投资。但是，下列情况除外：
(i)   出售日或重分类日距离该项投资的到期日或赎回日很近 ( 如到期 
前三个月内 )，以至于市场利率的变化对该项投资的公允价值没
有显著影响；(ii)  根据合同约定的定期偿付或提前还款方式收回该项投资几乎所有初始本金后，将剩余部分出售或重分类；或(iii)  出售或重分类是由于本公司无法控制、预期不会重复发生且难以合理预计的独立事项所引起。贷款及应收款项
贷款及应收款项，是指在活跃市场中没有报价、回收金额固定或可
确定的非衍生金融资产。对于此类金融资产，采用实际利率法，按
照摊余成本进行后续计量，其终止确认、发生减值或摊销产生的利
得或损失，均计入当期损益。可供出售金融资产
可供出售金融资产，是指初始确认时即指定为可供出售的非衍生金
融资产，以及除上述以外的金融资产。在后续计量期间，该类金融
资产以公允价值计量。可供出售金融资产持有期间获得的利息收入
采用实际利率法确认在损益中。除减值损失及外币货币性金融资产
的汇兑差额确认为当期损益外，可供出售金融资产的公允价值变动
确认为其他综合收益，直到该金融资产终止确认或发生减值时，其
累计利得或损失转入当期损益。Held-to-maturity Investment
Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable 
payments  and  fixed  maturity  are  classified  as  held-to-
maturity investments when the Bank has the intention and 
ability to hold the assets till maturity. After initial recognition, 
held-to-maturity financial assets are subsequently measured 
at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, 
less  any  allowance  for  impairment.  Gains  and  losses  are 
recognised  in  the  income  statement  when  the  held-to-
maturity financial assets are derecognised or impaired, as 
well  as  through  the  amortisation  process.  The  Bank  shall 
not classify any financial assets as held-to-maturity if the 
Bank has, during the current financial year or during the two 
preceding financial years, sold or reclassified more than an 
insignificant amount of held-to-maturity investments before 
maturity  (more  than  insignificant  in  relation  to  the  total 
amount  of  held-to-maturity  investments),  any  remaining 
held-to-maturity investments are reclassified as available-
for-sale financial assets except for:(i)    Sales or reclassifications that are so close to maturity or 
the financial asset’s call date (i.e. less than three months 
before maturity) that changes in the market interest rate 
would not have a significant effect on the financial asset’s 
fair value;(ii)   Sales or reclassifications that occur after the Bank has 
collected substantially all of the financial asset’s original 
principal through scheduled payments or prepayments; or
(iii)    Sales  or  reclassifications  that  are  attributable  to  an 
isolated event that is beyond the Bank’s control, is non-
recurring, and could not have been reasonably anticipated 
by the Bank.Loans and receivables
Loans  and  receivables  are  non-derivative  financial  assets 
with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in 
an active market. After initial measurement, such financial 
assets are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the 
effective interest rate method, gains or losses arising from 
derecognition, impairment or amortisation are recognised in 
the income statement.Available-for-sale financial assets
Available-for-sale  financial  assets  are  non-derivative 
financial  assets  which  are  designated  as  such  or  are  not 
classified  in  any  of  the  three  preceding  categories.  After 
initial  recognition,  available-for-sale  financial  assets  are 
subsequently measured at fair value. Interest income earned 
during  the  holding  period  is  accrued  using  the  effective 
interest rate method and recognised to the income statement 
as interest rate income. Changes in fair value of available-for-
sale financial assets are recognised as other comprehensive 
income until the financial asset is derecognised at which 
time the cumulative gains or losses previously reported in 
other  comprehensive  income  are  included  in  the  income 
statement.  Impairment  losses  and foreign exchange gains 
or  losses  on  available-for-sale  financial  assets  which  are 
monetary items are recognised in the income statement.UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|8711. 金融资产减值
本公司在每个资产负债表日对以公允价值计量且其变动计入当期损
益的金融资产以外的金融资产的账面价值进行检查，以判断是否有
证据表明金融资产已由于一项或多项事件的发生而出现减值 ( 即减
值事项 )。减值事项是指在该等资产初始确认后发生的、对预期未来
现金流量有影响的，且本公司能对该影响做出可靠计量的事项。资
产减值的客观证据包括下列各项：借款人或借款集团发生严重财务
困难；偿付利息或本金发生违约或逾期；债务人很可能倒闭或进行
其他财务重组；以及公开的数据表明债务人预计未来现金流量减少
且可计量，如拖欠款情况的恶化或经济条件的骤变等可以导致债务
人不履行责任的因素的变化。以摊余成本计量的金融资产
发生减值时，将该金融资产的账面价值通过备抵项目减记至预计未
来现金流量 ( 不包括尚未发生的未来信用损失 ) 现值，减记金额计入
当期损益。预计未来现金流量现值，按照该金融资产原实际利率折
现确定，并考虑相关担保物的价值。减值后利息收入按照确定减值
损失时对未来现金流量进行折现采用的折现率作为利率计算确认。
对于贷款和应收款项，如果没有未来收回的现实预期且所有抵押品
均已变现或已转入本公司，则转销贷款和应收款项以及与之相关的
减值准备。本公司对单项金额重大的金融资产进行单项评价，以确定其是否存
在减值的客观证据，并对其他单项金额不重大的资产，以单项或组
合评价的方式进行检查，以确定是否存在减值的客观证据。已进行
单独评价，但没有客观证据表明已出现减值的单项金融资产，无论
重大与否，该资产仍会与其他具有类似信用风险特征的金融资产构
成一个组合再进行组合减值评价。已经进行单独评价并确认或继续
确认减值损失的金融资产将不被列入组合评价的范围内。对于以组合评价方式来检查减值情况的金融资产组合而言，未来现
金流量之估算乃参考与该资产组合信用风险特征类似的金融资产的
历史损失经验确定。本公司会对作为参考的历史损失经验根据当前
情况进行修正，包括加入那些仅存在于当前时期而不对历史损失经
验参考期产生影响的因素，以及去除那些仅影响历史损失经验参考
期的情况但在当前已不适用的因素。本公司会定期审阅用于估计预
期未来现金流的方法及假设。(11) Impairment of financial assets
The carrying value of financial assets other than financial 
assets at fair value through profit or loss is assessed at each 
reporting date to determine whether there is any objective 
evidence that it is impaired as a result of one or more events 
(impairment events). The impairment events are referred to 
those occurring after the initial recognition of the assets, 
which have an impact on the estimated future cash flows 
of the financial assets and can be reliably estimated by the 
Bank. Evidence of impairment may include indications that 
the  borrower  or  a  group  of  borrowers  are  experiencing 
significant  financial  difficulty,  default  or  delinquency  in 
interest or principal payments, the probability that they will 
enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation and where 
observable data indicate that there is a measurable decrease 
in the estimated future cash flows, such as deterioration 
of the situation in arrears or sudden change of economic 
conditions, which may lead to the debtors’ failing to fulfil 
the responsibility of repayment.Financial assets carried at amortised cost
When  an  impairment  loss  is  incurred,  the  amount  of  the 
loss  is  measured,  through  use  of  an  allowance  account, 
as  the  difference  between  the  financial  asset's  carrying 
amount  and  the  present  value  of  estimated  future  cash 
flows  (excluding  future  credit  losses  that  have  not  been 
incurred) discounted at the financial asset's original effective 
interest rate, taking into account the value of any related 
collaterals. Once an impairment loss is recognised, interest 
income is thereafter recognised by using the rate of interest 
used to discount the future cash flows for the purpose of 
measuring the impairment loss. Loans and receivables and 
the related allowance accounts will be written off if there 
is no probability of recovery and all collaterals have been 
foreclosed or transferred to the Bank.The  Bank  firstly  assesses  whether  objective  evidence  of 
impairment exists individually for financial assets that are 
individually significant, and individually or collectively for 
financial assets that are not individually significant. If the 
Bank determines that no objective evidence of impairment 
exists for an individually assessed financial asset, whether 
significant or not, it includes the asset in a group of financial 
assets with similar credit risk characteristics and collectively 
assesses them for impairment. Assets that are individually 
assessed for impairment and for which an impairment loss is 
or continues to be recognised are not included in a collective 
assessment of impairment.Future  cash  flows  of  a  group  of  financial  assets  that  are 
collectively assessed for impairment are estimated on the 
basis  of  historical  loss  experience  for  assets  with  similar 
credit  risk  characteristics.  The  historical  loss  experience 
is  adjusted  on  the  basis  of  current  observable  data,  to 
reflect the effects of current conditions not affecting the 
period of historical experience and to eliminate the impact 
of  historical  conditions  that  do  not  exist  currently.  The 
methodology and assumptions used for estimating future 
cash flows are reviewed regularly by the Bank.88 大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告|本公司对以摊余成本计量的金融资产确认减值准备后，如有客观证
据表明该金融资产价值已恢复，且客观上与确认该损失后发生的事
项有关，原确认的减值损失予以转回，计入当期损益。但是，该转
回后的账面价值不超过假定不计提减值准备情况下该金融资产在转
回日的摊余成本。以成本计量的金融资产
如果有客观证据表明该金融资产发生减值，将该金融资产的账面价
值，与按照类似金融资产当时市场收益率对未来现金流量折现确定
的现值之间的差额，确认为减值损失，计入当期损益。发生的减值
损失一经确认，不再转回。可供出售金融资产
如果可供出售金融资产发生减值，原直接计入其他综合收益的因公
允价值下降形成的累计损失，当予以转出，计入当期损益。该转出
的累计损失，为该资产的初始取得成本 ( 扣除已收回本金和已摊销
金额 ) 与当前公允价值之间的差额，减去所有原已计入损益的减值
损失。对于已确认减值损失的可供出售债务工具，在随后的会计期间公允
价值已上升且客观上与确认原减值损失确认后发生的事项有关的，
原确认的减值损失予以转回，计入当期损益。可供出售权益工具投
资发生的减值损失，不通过损益转回。12. 金融负债
本公司持有的金融负债分成以公允价值计量且其变动计入当期损益
的金融负债及其他金融负债。以公允价值计量且其变动计入当期损益的金融负债
本公司以公允价值计量且其变动计入当期损益的金融负债分成为交
易而持有的金融负债和初始确认时管理层就指定为以公允价值计量
且其变动计入当期损益的金融负债。所有公允价值的变动均计入当
期损益。If, in a subsequent period, the amount of an impairment loss 
decreases and the decrease can be attributed objectively 
to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, 
the previously recognised impairment loss shall be reversed. 
Any subsequent reversal of an impairment loss is recognised 
in  the  income  statement,  to  the  extent  that  the  carrying 
value of the assets does not exceed its amortised cost at the 
reversal date.Financial assets carried at cost
If objective evidence shows that the financial assets carried 
at cost are impaired, the difference between the present 
value discounted at the prevailing rate of return of similar 
financial assets and the book value of the financial asset are 
provided as an impairment loss in the income statement. The 
impairment loss recognised cannot be reversed.Available-for-sale financial assets
If  there  is  objective  evidence  that  an  impairment  loss 
for  available-for-sale  financial  assets  has  been  incurred, 
the cumulative loss, measured as the difference between 
the  acquisition  cost  (net  off  any  recovered  principals 
and  amortised  amount)  and  the  current  fair  value,  less 
any  impairment  loss  on  that  financial  asset  previously 
recognised in the income statement, is reversed from other 
comprehensive  income  and  recognised  in  the  income 
statement.Debt  instruments  classified  as  available-for-sale  with 
impairment loss recognised, if, in a subsequent period, the 
fair value of a debt instrument increases and the increase 
can be objectively related to an event occurring after the 
impairment  loss,  the  previously  impaired  loss  is  reversed 
through the income statement. Reversal of impairment loss 
of equity instruments classified as available-for-sale is not 
recognised in the income statement.(12) Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities 
at  fair  value  through  profit  or  loss,  or  other  financial 
liabilities.Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss include 
financial liabilities held for trading and those designated as 
at fair value through profit or loss upon initial recognition. 
Gains and losses from changes in fair value are recognised in 
the income statement.UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|89财务担保合同
财务担保合同在初始确认时按公允价值计量，不属于指定为以公允
价值计量且其变动计入当期损益的金融负债的财务担保合同，在初
始确认后按照《企业会计准则第 13 号—或有事项》确定的金额和初
始确认金额扣除按照《企业会计准则第 14 号—收入》的原则确定的
累计摊销额后的余额之中的较高者进行后续计量。其他金融负债
除以公允价值计量且其变动计入当期损益的金融负债外，此类金融
负债均采用实际利率法，以摊余成本进行后续计量。13. 金融工具的终止确认
金融资产
金融资产满足下列条件之一的，将被终止确认：(i)    收取该金融资产现金流量的合同权利终止；或
(ii)   转移了收取金融资产现金流量的权利，或在“过手协议”下承
担了及时将收取的现金流量全额支付给第三方的义务；并且 (a)
实质上转让了金融资产所有权上几乎所有的风险和报酬，或 (b)
虽然实质上既没有转移也没有保留金融资产所有权上几乎所有
的风险和报酬，但放弃了对该金融资产的控制。当本公司既没有转移也没有保留金融资产所有权上几乎所有的风险
和报酬，也没有放弃对该金融资产的控制，则本公司会根据所有继
续涉入所转移金融资产的程度确认有关金融资产。如果本公司采用
为所转移金融资产提供担保的形式继续涉入，则按照金融资产的账
面价值和财务担保金额两者之中的较低者，确认继续涉入形成的资
产。财务担保金额，是指所收到的对价中，将被要求偿还的最高金额。金融负债
如果金融负债的责任已履行、撤销或届满，则对金融负债进行终止
确认。如果现有金融负债被同一债权人以实质上几乎完全不同条款
的另一金融负债所取代，或者现有负债的条款几乎全部被实质性修
改，则此类替换或修改作为终止确认原负债和确认新负债处理，差
额计入当期损益。90 大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告|Financial guarantee contracts
Financial guarantee contracts are measured at the fair value 
on initial recognition. For financial guarantee contracts that 
are not designated as at fair value through profit or loss, 
they are, after initial recognition, subsequently measured 
at  the  higher  of,  the  amount  determined  in  accordance 
with Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises No. 13 
– Contingencies, and the amount initially recognised less 
the cumulative amortisation determined according to the 
principles of Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises 
No. 14 - Revenues.Other financial liabilities
Except for financial liabilities at fair value through profit or 
loss and financial guarantee contracts, deposits and other 
financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised 
cost using the effective interest rate method.(13) Derecognition of financial instruments
Financial assets
A financial asset is derecognised when one of the following 
conditions is met:(i)    the rights to receive cash flows from the financial assetshave expired; or(ii)   the Bank has transferred its rights to receive cash flows 
from the assets; or has retained its rights to receive cash 
flows from the assets but has assumed an obligation to 
pay them in full without material delay to a third party 
under  a  pass-through  arrangement;  and  (a)  the  Bank 
has  transferred substantially all  the risks and rewards 
of ownership of the financial asset; or (b) the Bank has 
neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks 
and rewards of ownership of the financial asset, but has 
transferred control of the asset.Where  the  Bank  has  neither  transferred  nor  retained 
substantially  all  the  risks  and  rewards  of  the  asset  nor 
transferred  control  of  the  financial  asset,  the  asset  is 
recognised to the extent of the Bank's continuing involvement 
of the financial asset. Continuing involvement that takes the 
form of a guarantee over the transferred financial asset is 
measured at the lower of the original carrying amount of the 
asset and the guaranteed amount. The guaranteed amount is 
the maximum amount of consideration that the Bank could 
be required to repay.Financial liabilities
The  financial  liabilities  are  derecognised  when  the 
responsibilities over them have been discharged, cancelled, 
or expired. If the original financial liabilities are replaced 
with substantively different terms in essence by the same 
creditor, or the provisions of the contract are substantively 
modified in its nature, such replacement or modifications are 
treated as derecognition of original liabilities and recognition 
of new liabilities, with the difference recorded in the income 
statement.14. 金融工具的抵销
同时满足下列条件的，金融资产和金融负债以相互抵销后的净额在
资产负债表内列示：具有抵销已确认金额的法定权利，且该种法定
权利是当前可执行的；计划以净额结算，或同时变现该金融资产和
清偿该金融负债。15. 衍生金融工具
衍生金融工具初始以衍生交易合同签订当日的公允价值进行确认，
并以其公允价值进行后续计量。公允价值为正数的衍生金融工具确
认为一项资产，公允价值为负数的确认为一项负债。当某些嵌入式衍生金融工具与其主合同的经济特征及风险不存在紧
密关系，并且该混合工具并非以公允价值计量且其变动计入当期损
益时，则该嵌入式衍生金融工具从主合同中予以分拆，作为独立的
衍生金融工具处理。这些嵌入式衍生产品以公允价值计量，公允价
值的变动计入当期损益。某些衍生金融工具交易在本公司风险管理的状况下虽对风险提供有
效的经济套期，但因不符合运用套期会计的条件而作为交易而持有
的衍生金融工具处理，其公允价值变动计入损益。16. 买入返售和卖出回购交易
按回购合约出售的有价证券和票据（“卖出回购”）不予终止确认，
视具体情况在相应资产项目中列示，对交易对手的债务在“卖出回
购金融资产款”中列示。按返售合约买入的有价证券和票据（“买
入返售”）不予以确认，对交易对手的债权在“买入返售金融资产”
中列示。出售和回购及买入和返售间的价差采用实际利率法在合约有效期内
计入利润表中的利息支出或利息收入。(14) Offsetting financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the 
net amount presented in the balance sheet when and only 
when the Bank currently has a legally enforceable right to 
set off the recognised amounts and intends either to settle 
on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability 
simultaneously.(15) Derivatives
Derivatives  are  initially  recognised  at  fair  value  of  the 
contract date and are subsequently measured at fair value. 
Derivatives are carried as assets when fair value is positive 
and as liabilities when fair value is negative.Derivatives  embedded  in  other  financial  instruments  are 
treated  separately  as  derivatives  when  their  economic 
characteristics and risks are not closely related to those of 
the host contract and the hybrid instrument is not carried at 
fair value through profit or loss. These embedded derivatives 
are  measured  at  fair  value  with  the  changes  in  fair  value 
recognised in the income statement.Certain  derivative  transactions,  while  providing  effective 
economic  hedges  under  the  Bank‘s  risk  management 
positions,  do  not  qualify  for  hedge  accounting  and  are 
therefore treated as derivatives held for trading with gains or 
losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised in the 
income statement.(16) Repurchase and reverse repurchase transactions
Securities and bills sold subject to repurchase agreements 
(“Repos”)  continue  to  be  recognised,  and  are  recorded 
as  financial  investments.  The  corresponding  obligation  is 
included in “Financial Assets Sold for Repurchase”. Securities 
and bills purchased under agreements to re-sell (“Reverse 
repos”) are not recognised. The receivables are recorded as 
“Reverse repurchase financial assets”, as appropriate.The difference between purchase and sale price is recognised 
as  interest  expense  or  interest  income  in  the  income 
statement over the life of the agreements using the effective 
interest method.UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|9117. 贵金属
贵金属主要包括黄金。为交易目的而获得的贵金属按照取得时的公
允价值进行初始确认，并以公允价值进行后续计量，相关变动计入
当期损益。(17) Precious metal
Precious metals comprise gold. Precious metals acquired by 
the Bank for trading purposes are initially measured at fair 
value and subsequent changes in fair value are recorded in 
the income statement.18. 资产减值
本公司对除金融资产和递延所得税资产外的资产减值，按以下方法
确定：(18) Impairment of assets
The Bank assesses impairment of assets as follows, except for 
financial assets and deferred tax assets:本公司于资产负债表日判断资产是否存在可能发生减值的迹象，存
在减值迹象的，本公司将估计其可收回金额，进行减值测试。对使
用寿命不确定的无形资产，无论是否存在减值迹象，至少于每年末
进行减值测试。对于尚未达到可使用状态的无形资产，也每年进行
减值测试。可收回金额根据资产的公允价值减去处置费用后的净额与资产预计
未来现金流量的现值两者之间较高者确定。本公司以单项资产为基
础估计其可收回金额。当资产的可收回金额低于其账面价值时，本公司将其账面价值减记
至可收回金额，减记的金额计入当期损益，同时计提相应的资产减
值准备。上述资产减值损失一经确认，在以后会计期间不再转回。19. 预计负债
除了非同一控制下企业合并中的或有对价及承担的或有负债之外，
当与或有事项相关的义务同时符合以下条件，本公司将其确认为预
计负债：(i) 该义务是本公司承担的现时义务；
(ii) 该义务的履行很可能导致经济利益流出本公司；
(iii) 该义务的金额能够可靠地计量。预计负债按照履行相关现时义务所需支出的最佳估计数进行初始计
量，并综合考虑与或有事项有关的风险、不确定性和货币时间价值
等因素。每个资产负债表日对预计负债的账面价值进行复核。有确
凿证据表明该账面价值不能反映当前最佳估计数的，按照当前最佳
估计数对该账面价值进行调整。The  Bank  assesses  whether  there  is  an  indication  that  an 
asset  is  impaired  at  each  balance  sheet  date.  If  any  such 
indication exists, the Bank makes an estimate of the asset’s 
recoverable  amount  and  carries  out  impairment  test.  For 
those assets with infinite useful lives, regardless of whether 
the  impairment  indications  exist,  the  impairment  test  is 
made at least annually. For intangible assets that have not 
yet reached their intented use status are also conducted 
annually impairment test.An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of its fair value 
less costs to sell and the present value of estimated future 
discounted cash flows, which is determined on an individual 
basis.If  the  recoverable  amount  of  the  asset  is  less  than  its 
carrying value, an impairment loss is recognised immediately 
in  income  statement  and  the  carrying  value  of  the  asset 
reduced by the amount of the loss.Once  an  impairment  loss  is  recognised,  it  shall  not  be 
reversed in a subsequent period.(19) Accrued liability
An  obligation  related  to  a  contingency  is  recognised  as 
accrued liability when all of the following conditions are 
satisfied  (except  for  contingent  liability  recognised  in  a 
business combination not under common control):(i) the obligation is a present obligation of the Bank;
(ii) it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will 
be required to settle the obligation; and
(iii) the amount of the obligation can be measured reliably.The accrued liability is initially measured at the best estimate 
of the expenditure required to settle the related present 
obligation. Factors pertaining to a contingency such as the 
risks, uncertainties and time value of money are taken into 
account as a whole in reaching the best estimate. The Bank 
reviews the carrying amount of a provision at the balance 
sheet  date.  The  carrying  amount  of  a  provision  will  be 
adjusted when there is clear evidence that the amount does 
not reflect the current best estimate.92 大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告|20. 收入及支出确认原则和方法
收入是在与交易相关的经济利益很可能流入本公司，且有关收入的
金额能够可靠地计量时，按以下基准确认：利息收入和利息支出
利息收入或利息支出以实际利率计量。实际利率是指按金融工具的
预计存续期间或更短期间将其预计未来现金流入或流出折现至其金
融资产或金融负债账面净值的利率。利息收入的计算需要考虑金融
工具的合同条款并且包括所有归属于实际利率组成部分的费用和所
有交易成本，但不包括未来信用损失。如果本公司对未来收入或支
出的估计发生改变，金融资产或负债的账面价值亦可能随之调整。
由于调整后的账面价值是按照原实际利率计算而得，变动也记入利
息收入或利息支出。手续费及佣金收入
手续费及佣金收入于已提供有关服务后及收取的金额可以合理地估
算时确认。21. 租赁
实质上转移了与资产所有权相关的全部风险和报酬的租赁为融资租
赁，除此之外的均为经营租赁。作为经营租赁承租人
经营租赁的租金支出，在租赁期内各个期间按照直线法计入相关的
资产成本或当期损益。作为融资租赁承租人
融资租入的资产，于将租赁开始日租赁资产的公允价值与最低租赁
付款额现值两者中较低者作为租入资产的入账价值，将最低租赁付
款额作为长期应付款的入账价值，其差额作为未确认融资费用，在
租赁期内各个期间采用实际利率法进行分摊。或有租金在实际发生
时计入当期损益。(20) Recognition of income and expense
Revenue is recognised to the extent when it is probable that 
the economic benefits will flow to the Bank and the revenue 
can be reliably measured. The following specific recognition 
criteria must be met before revenue is recognised:Interest income and expense
Interest  income  or  expense  are  determined  using  the 
effective interest method, the effective interest rate is the 
rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments 
or  receipts  through  the  expected  life  of  the  financial 
instrument or a shorter period, where appropriate, to the net 
carrying amount of the financial asset or financial liability. 
The calculation takes into account all contractual terms of 
the financial instrument and includes any fees or incremental 
costs that are directly attributable to the instrument and are 
an integral part of the effective interest rate, but not future 
credit losses. The carrying amount of the financial asset or 
financial liability is adjusted if the Bank revises its estimates 
of payments or receipts. The adjusted carrying amount is 
calculated based on original effective interest rate and the 
change in carrying amount is recorded as an interest income 
or expense.Fee and commission income
Fee and commission income is recognised when the services 
are rendered and the proceeds can be reasonably estimated.(21) leases
Leases which transfer substantially all the risks and rewards 
of ownership of the assets to the lessees are classified as 
finance leases. Other leases are classified as operating leases.As operating lessee
When the Bank is a lessee under an operating lease, rental 
payments  are  charged  to  the  income  statement  on  the 
straight-line basis over the lease terms.As financial lessee
When the Bank is a lessee under a finance lease, the leased 
assets are capitalised initially at the fair value of the asset or, 
if lower, the present value of the minimum lease payments. 
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in "Other 
liabilities". Finance charges are charged over the term of the 
lease using an interest rate which reflects a constant rate 
of return. Contingent rental payments are charged to the 
income statement when incurred.UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|9322. 政府补助
政府补助在能够满足其所附的条件并且能够收到时，予以确认。政
府补助为货币性资产的，按照收到或应收的金额计量。政府补助为
非货币性资产的，按照公允价值计量；公允价值不能可靠取得的，
按照名义金额计量。与收益相关的政府补助，用于补偿以后期间的
相关成本费用或损失的，确认为递延收益，并在确认相关成本费用
或损失的期间计入当期损益或冲减相关成本；用于补偿已发生的相
关成本费用或损失的，直接计入当期损益或冲减相关成本。与资产
相关的政府补助，冲减相关资产的账面价值；或确认为递延收益，
在相关资产使用寿命内按照合理、系统的方法分期，计入损益 ( 但
按照名义金额计量的政府补助，直接计入当期损益 )，相关资产在使
用寿命结束前被出售、转让、报废或发生毁损的，尚未分配的相关
递延收益余额转入资产处置当期的损益。23. 股份支付
本公司的股份支付为以权益结算的股份支付。以权益结算的股份支付换取员工提供服务的，以授予员工权益工具
的公允价值计量。授予后立即可行权的，在授予日按照公允价值计
入相关费用，相应增加资本公积；完成等待期内的服务或达到规定
业绩条件才可行权的，在等待期内每个资产负债表日，本公司根据
最新取得的可行权员工人数变动、是否达到规定业绩条件等后续信
息对可行权权益工具数量作出最佳估计，以此为基础，按照授予日
的公允价值，将当期取得的服务计入相关费用，相应增加资本公积。
权益工具的公允价值采用三叉树模型确定。对于最终未能行权的股份支付，不确认费用，除非行权条件是市场
条件或非可行权条件，此时无论是否满足市场条件或非可行权条件，
只要满足所有可行权条件中的非市场条件，即视为可行权。(22) Government subsidies
Government  subsidies  will  be  recognized  if  the  Bank  can 
receive  government  subsidies  and  meet  the  conditions 
attached to government subsidies. If government subsidies 
are monetary assets, they shall be measured in the light of 
the amount received or receivable. If a government subsidy 
is a non-monetary asset, it shall be measured at its fair value; 
and if its fair value cannot be obtained in a reliable way, it 
shall be measured at a nominal amount.Government subsidies 
associated with income which are used as compensation for 
future costs, expenses or losses are recognized as deferred 
expenditures and shall recorded in future profits and losses 
to  reverse  the  related  costs  where  the  relevant  costs, 
expenses or losses are recognized. Government subsidies 
associated with income which are used to compensate the 
related costs, expenses or losses incurred by the Bank are 
directly included in current profit and loss or used to reverse 
the  related  costs.  Government  subsidies  associated  with 
assets shall set off the book value of related assets or be 
recognized as deferred expenditures. Government subsidies 
related to assets are recognized as deferred expenditures 
to be distributed over the useful lives of the relevant assets 
and shall be recorded in the profit or loss  by stages  in a 
reasonable and systematic manner. Government subsidies 
measured in nominal amounts, shall directly recognized in 
current profits and losses. Where relevant assets are sold, 
transferred, scraped or damaged before the end of their lives, 
balance of the unallocated deferred expenditures shall be 
recognized in current profit and loss on asset disposal.(23) Share-based payment
The Bank’s share-based compensation program is measured 
as an equity-settled share-based payment.The  equity-settled  share-based  payment  is  measured  by 
reference to the fair value of the equity instruments granted. 
Where the equity instruments granted vest immediately, the 
Bank recognises the expense in full at the fair value on grant 
date with a corresponding increase in capital reserve. Where 
the  equity  instruments  granted  vest  upon  the  fulfilment 
of  service  period  or  performance  conditions,  the  Bank 
makes a best estimate at the number of equity instruments 
that will ultimately vest, at each balance sheet date of the 
vesting period, based on the latest information on eligible 
employees and performance conditions, and recognise the 
expense pertaining to the current period at the fair value on 
grant date with a corresponding increase in capital reserve. 
The fair values of the equity instruments are estimated using 
the Trinomial valuation methodology.No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately 
vest, except for equity-settled transactions where vesting is 
conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition, which 
are treated  as vesting irrespective of  whether or not the 
market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all 
other performance and service conditions are satisfied.94 大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告|如果修改了以权益结算的股份支付的条款，至少按照未修改条款的
情况确认取得的服务。此外，任何增加所授予权益工具公允价值的
修改，或在修改日对员工有利的变更，均确认取得服务的增加。如果取消了以权益结算的股份支付，则于取消日作为加速行权处理，
立即确认尚未确认的金额。员工能够选择满足非可行权条件但在等
待期内未满足的，作为取消以权益结算的股份支付处理。但是，如
果授予新的权益工具，并在新权益工具授予日认定所授予的新权益
工具是用于替代被取消的权益工具的，则以与处理原权益工具条款
和条件修改相同的方式，对所授予的替代权益工具进行处理。24. 职工薪酬
职工薪酬，是指本公司为获得职工提供的服务或解除劳动关系而给
予的各种形式的报酬或补偿。职工薪酬包括短期薪酬、离职后福利、
辞退福利和其他长期职工福利。短期薪酬
工资与奖金、社会保障福利及其他短期员工福利会于本公司员工提
供服务的期间计提。离职后福利 ( 设定提存计划 )
本公司的员工参加由当地政府管理的养老保险和失业保险，相应支
出在发生时计入当期损益。本公司员工还可自愿参加本公司设立的企业年金计划。本公司按员
工工资的一定比例向年金计划缴款，相应支出计入当期损益。25. 所得税
所得税包括当期所得税和递延所得税。除与直接计入所有者权益的
交易或事项相关的所得税计入所有者权益外，其他所得税均计入当
期损益。当期所得税是按照当期应纳税所得额计算的当期应交所得税金额。
应纳税所得额系根据有关税法规定对本年度税前会计利润作相应调
整后得出。本公司对于当期和以前期间形成的当期所得税负债或资产，按照税
法规定计算的预期应交纳或返还的所得税金额计量。Where the terms of an equity–settled award are modified, 
as a minimum, an expense is recognised as if the terms had 
not been modified. An additional expense is recognised for 
any modification which increases the total fair value of the 
share–based  payments,  or  is  otherwise  beneficial  to  the 
employee as measured at the date of modification.Where an equity–settled award is cancelled, it is treated as 
if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense 
not yet recognised for the award is recognised immediately. 
This includes any award where non–vesting conditions within 
the control of the employees are not met. However, if a new 
award is substituted for the cancelled award, and designated 
as a replacement award on the date that it is granted, the 
cancelled and new compensation are treated as if they were 
a modification of the original award.(24) Employee benefits
Employee benefits are all forms of consideration given by 
the Bank in exchange for service rendered by employees or 
for the termination of employment, including short-term 
employee benefits, post-employment benefits, termination 
benefits and other long-term benefits.Short-term employee benefits
Salaries and bonuses, social security contributions and other 
short-term employee benefits are accrued in the period in 
which services have been rendered by the employees of the 
Bank.Post-employment benefits (defined contribution plan)
Employees of the Bank participate in the retirement insurance 
plan,  and  unemployment  insurance  plan  administered  by 
the local government, and the contribution is recognised to 
income statement of that period.Employees of the Bank can participate in the annuity plan 
established  by  the  Bank  on  a  voluntary  basis.  The  Bank 
contributes  to  the  annuity  at  a  certain  percentage  of 
employees’ salary, and recognises the cost in the income 
statement accordingly.(25) Income tax
Income tax includes current tax and deferred tax. Current 
income  tax  and  movements  in  deferred  tax  balances  are 
recognised in the income statement except that it relates to 
items recognised directly in equity, in which case the tax is 
recognised directly in equity.Current  tax  is  the  expected  tax  payable  on  the  taxable 
income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantially 
enacted at the balance sheet date. The taxable income is 
calculated at the accounting results for the year as adjusted 
in accordance with relevant tax regulations.Current  income  tax  assets  and  liabilities  for  the  current 
and  prior  periods  are  measured  at  the  amount  expected 
to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities in 
accordance with relevant tax regulations.UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|95本公司根据资产与负债于资产负债表日的账面价值与计税基础之间
的暂时性差异，以及未作为资产和负债确认但按照税法规定可以确
定其计税基础的项目的账面价值与计税基础之间的差额产生的暂时
性差异，采用资产负债表债务法计提递延所得税。Deferred income tax is provided, using the liability method, 
on  all  temporary  differences  between  the  tax  bases  of 
assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial 
reporting purposes at the balance sheet date.对于可抵扣暂时性差异、能够结转以后年度的可抵扣亏损和税款抵
减，本公司以很可能取得用来抵扣可抵扣暂时性差异、可抵扣亏损
和税款抵减的未来应纳税所得额为限，确认由此产生的递延所得税
资产。但是，同时具有下列特征的交易中因资产或负债的初始确认
所产生的递延所得税资产不予确认：1）该交易不是企业合并，并且
交易发生时既不影响会计利润也不影响应纳税所得额（或可抵扣亏
损）；2）对于所有与子公司、合营公司、联营公司投资相关的可抵
扣暂时性差异，同时满足下列条件的，确认相应的递延所得税资产：
暂时性差异在可预见的未来很可能转回，且未来很可能获得用来抵
扣可抵扣暂时性差异的应纳税所得额。本公司于资产负债表日，对于递延所得税资产和递延所得税负债，
依据税法规定，按照预期收回该资产或清偿该负债期间的适用税率
计量，并反映资产负债表日预期收回资产或清偿负债方式的所得税
影响。于资产负债表日，本公司对递延所得税资产的账面价值进行复核。
如果未来期间很可能无法获得足够的应纳税所得额用以抵扣递延所
得税资产的利益，减记递延所得税资产的账面价值。于资产负债表日，
本公司重新评估未确认的递延所得税资产，在很可能获得足够的应
纳税所得额可供所有或部分递延所得税资产转回的限度内，确认递
延所得税资产。同时满足下列条件时，递延所得税资产和递延所得税负债以抵销后
的净额列示：拥有以净额结算当期所得税资产及当期所得税负债的
法定权利；递延所得税资产和递延所得税负债是与同一税收征管部
门对同一应纳税主体征收的所得税相关或者对不同的纳税主体相关，
但在未来每一具有重要性的递延所得税资产和递延所得税负债转回
的期间内，涉及的纳税主体体意图以净额结算当期所得税资产及当
期所得税负债或是同时取得资产、清偿债务。Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible 
temporary differences, carryforward of unused tax credits 
and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that 
taxable profit will be available against which the deductible 
temporary  differences,  and  the  carryforward  of  unused 
tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised, except: 
(i)  where  the  deferred  tax  assets  arises  from  the  initial 
recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not 
a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, 
affects  neither  the  accounting  profit  nor  taxable  income 
or deductible loss; and; (ii) in respect of taxable temporary 
differences  associated  with  investments  in  subsidiaries, 
associates and interests in joint arrangements, where it is 
probable that the temporary difference will reverse in the 
foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against 
which the temporary difference can be utilised.Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax 
rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset 
is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates (and 
tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by 
the balance sheet date.The  carrying  amount  of  deferred  income  tax  assets  is 
reviewed  at  each  balance  sheet  date  and  reduced  to  the 
extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable 
profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred 
income  tax  asset  to  be  utilised.  Unrecognised  deferred 
income tax assets are reassessed at each balance sheet date 
and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable 
that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to 
be recovered.Deferred  tax  assets  and  deferred  tax  liabilities  are  offset 
when fulfilling of the following conditions:(i) A legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax 
assets against current tax liabilities. 
(ii) The deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are 
related to the income tax levied on the same taxpayer by 
the same tax administrative department or are related to 
different taxpayers but, within each future period of reversal 
of important deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities, 
the taxpayers involved intend to settle current tax assets and 
current tax liabilities or acquire assets and liquidate liabilities 
at the same time.96 大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告|26. 公允价值计量
本公司于每个资产负债表日以公允价值计量衍生金融工具、以公允
价值计量且其变动计入当期损益的金融资产、金融负债以及可供出
售金融资产。公允价值，是指市场参与者在计量日发生的有序交易
中，出售一项资产所能收到或者转移一项负债所需支付的价格。本
公司以公允价值计量相关资产或负债，假定出售资产或者转移负债
的有序交易在相关资产或负债的主要市场进行；不存在主要市场的，
本公司假定该交易在相关资产或负债的最有利市场进行。主要市场
( 或最有利市场 ) 是本公司在计量日能够进入的交易市场。本公司采
用市场参与者在对该资产或负债定价时为实现其经济利益最大化所
使用的假设。本公司采用在当前情况下适用并且有足够可利用数据和其他信息支
持的估值技术，优先使用相关可观察输入值，只有在可观察输入值
无法取得或取得不切实可行的情况下，才使用不可观察输入值。(26) Fair value measurement
At each balance sheet date, the Bank measures its derivatives, 
financial assets  and liabilities at  fair  value through  profit 
or loss, and available-for-sale financial assets at fair value. 
Fair  value  is  the  price  that  would  be  received  to  sell  an 
asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction 
between market participants at the measurement date. The 
fair value measurement is based on the assumption that the 
orderly transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability 
takes place either in the principal market for the asset or 
liability, or in the absence of a principal market, in the most 
advantageous market for the asset or liability. The principal 
or  the  most  advantageous  market  must  be  accessible  to 
the Bank. The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured 
using the assumption that market participants would use 
when  pricing  the  asset  or  liability,  assuming  that  market 
participants act in their economic best interest.在财务报表中以公允价值计量或披露的资产和负债，根据对公允价
值计量整体而言具有重要意义的最低层次输入值，确定所属的公允
价值层次：在计量日能够取得的相同资产或负债在活跃市场上未经
调整的报价为第一层次输入值；除第一层次输入值外相关资产或负
债直接或间接可观察的输入值为第二层次输入值；相关资产或负债
的不可观察输入值为第三层次输入值。The Bank uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in 
the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available 
to  measure  the  fair  value.  Use  of  observable  inputs  is 
maximized and unobservable inputs will only be used when 
observable inputs are not available or obtaining observable 
inputs becomes unpractical.每个资产负债表日，本公司对在财务报表中确认的持续以公允价值
计量的资产和负债进行重新评估，以确定是否在公允价值计量层次
之间发生转换。27. 关联方
一方控制、共同控制另一方或对另一方施加重大影响，以及两方或
两方以上同受一方控制、共同控制或重大影响的，构成关联方。仅同受国家控制而不存在其他关联方关系的企业，不构成本公司的
关联方。28. 受托业务
本公司以被任命者、受托人或代理人等受托身份进行活动时，该委
托活动所产生的资产与该资产偿还客户的保证未包括在本报表。For assets and liabilities measured and disclosed at fair value, 
the fair value measurement is categorised in its entirety in 
the same level of the fair value hierarchy as the lowest level 
input that is significant to the entire measurement: Level 
1  inputs  are  quoted  prices  (unadjusted)  in  active  markets 
for identical assets or liabilities that are accessible at the 
measurement  date;  Level  2  inputs  are  inputs  other  than 
quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable 
for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly; Level 3 
inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.For assets and liabilities held at the end of the balance sheet 
date that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis, the 
Bank continues to make assessment as to whether there is 
transfer between different levels of the fair value hierarchy.(27) Related parties
Parties  are  considered  to  be  related  if  one  party  has  the 
ability, directly or indirectly, to control the other party or 
exercise significant influence over the other party.  Parties are 
also considered to be related if they are subject to common 
control or common significant influence.The state-owned enterprises without other relationships do 
not constitute related parties.(28) Entrusted business
Where  the  Bank  acts  in  an  entrusted  business  such  as 
nominee, custodian or agent, assets arising thereon together 
with related undertakings to return such assets to customers 
are excluded from the financial statements.UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|9729. 或有负债
或有负债指过去的交易或者事项形成的潜在义务，其存在须通过未
来不确定事项的发生或不发生予以证实；或过去的交易或者事项形
成的现时义务，履行该义务不是很可能导致经济利益流出或该义务
的金额不能可靠计量，因此该义务不予确认。本公司对或有负债不予确认，仅在附注中加以披露。如情况发生变
化使得该事项很有可能导致经济利益的流出时，则将其确认为预计
负债。30. 重大会计判断和会计估计
在本公司执行会计政策的过程中，管理层对财务报表未来不确定事
项作出了判断、估计和假设。这些判断、估计和假设会影响收入、
费用、资产和负债的列报金额及其披露。然而，这些估计和假设的
不确定性所导致的结果可能造成对未来受影响的资产或负债的账面
金额进行重大调整。贷款和垫款的减值损失
本公司定期判断是否有任何客观证据表明贷款和垫款发生了减值损
失。如有，本公司将估算减值损失的金额。减值损失金额为贷款和
垫款账面金额与预计未来现金流量的现值之间的差额。估算减值损
失金额时，需要对是否存在客观证据表明贷款和垫款已发生减值损
失作出重大判断，并需要对预期未来现金流量的现值作出重大估计。所得税
本公司需要对某些交易未来的税务处理作出判断以确认所得税。本
公司根据中国税收法规，谨慎判断交易对应的所得税影响并相应地
计提所得税。递延所得税资产只会在未来应课税利润有可能用作抵
销有关暂时性差异时才可确认。对此需要就某些交易的税务处理作
出重大判断，并需要就是否有足够的未来应课税利润以抵销递延所
得税资产的可能性作出重大的估计。(29) Contingent liabilities
A contingent liability is a possible obligation that arises from 
past events and whose existence will only be confirmed by 
the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain 
future events not wholly within the control of the Bank. It 
can also be a present obligation arising from past events that 
is not recognised because it is not probable that an outflow 
of economic resources will be required or the amount of 
obligation cannot be measured reliably.The  Bank  will  not  recognise  contingent  liabilities,  but 
disclosed in the notes to financial statements. In case the 
condition changes, which led to the outflow of economic 
resources is probable, provision will be made.(30) Significant accounting judgment and estimates
In  the  process  of  applying  the  accounting  policies,  the 
management  has  used  its  judgments  and  made  estimates 
and assumptions of the effects of uncertain future events 
on the financial statements. The use of judgments, estimates 
and assumptions will affect the amount of income, expense, 
assets and liabilities presented and disclosed. The uncertainty 
of such estimates and assumptions might have a significant 
risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts 
of assets and liabilities in the future.Impairment losses of loans and advances
The  Bank  determines  periodically  whether  there  is  any 
objective  evidence  that  impairment  losses  on  loans  and 
advances have occurred. If any such evidence exists, the Bank 
assesses the amount of impairment losses. The amount of 
impairment losses is measured as the difference between the 
carrying amount and the present value of estimated future 
cash  flows.  Assessing  the  amount  of  impairment  losses 
involving significant judgement on whether the objective 
evidence for impairment exists and also significant estimates 
when determining the present value of the expected future 
cash flows.Income tax
Determining  income  tax  provisions  requires  the  Bank  to 
estimate the future tax treatment of certain transactions. 
The Bank carefully evaluates tax implications of transactions 
in  accordance  with  prevailing  tax  regulations  and  makes 
tax provisions accordingly. In addition, deferred tax assets 
are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future 
taxable profit will be available against which the deductible 
temporary differences can be utilised. This requires significant 
estimation on the tax treatments of certain transactions and 
also significant assessment on the probability that adequate 
future taxable profits will be available for the deferred tax 
assets to be recovered.98 大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告|金融工具的公允价值
对于存在活跃市场的金融工具，本公司优先采用活跃市场的报价确
定其公允价值。对于不存在活跃市场的金融工具，本公司采用估值
技术确定其公允价值。估值技术包括参考熟悉情况并自愿交易的各
方最近进行的市场交易中使用的价格、参照实质上相同的其他金融
工具的当前公允价值和现金流量折现法等。在可行的情况下，估值
技术尽可能使用市场参数。然而，当缺乏市场参数时，管理层需就
自身和交易对手的信贷风险、市场波动率、相关性等方面作出估计。
这些相关假设的变化会对金融工具的公允价值产生影响。投资分类
管理层需要就投资的分类作出重大判断，不同的分类会影响会计核
算方法及本公司的财务状况。期后如发现本公司错误判断了投资的
分类，有可能需要对整体投资进行重分类。金融工具终止确认
于金融工具转移交易中，本公司管理层需就与所转移金融工具所有
权有关的风险及报酬进行分析与判断，并根据分析的结果进行相应
的账务处理。31. 会计政策变更
根据《关于印发修订〈企业会计准则第 16 号——政府补助〉的通知》
( 财会 [2017] 15 号 ) 要求，本公司在利润表中的“营业利润”项目之
上单独列报“其他收益”项目，与企业日常活动相关的政府补助由
在“营业外收入”中列报改为在“其他收益”中列报；按照该准则
的衔接规定，本公司对 2017 年 1 月 1 日前存在的政府补助采用未来
适用法处理，对 2017 年 1 月 1 日至该准则施行日 (2017 年 6 月 12 日 )
之间新增的政府补助根据本准则进行调整。2017 年度和 2016 年度的
“其他收益”、“营业利润”以及“营业外收入”项目列报的内容
有所不同，但对 2017 年度和 2016 年度公司净利润无影响。Fair value of financial instruments
Fair  value  of  financial  assets  and  financial  liabilities  with 
active markets are determined based on the market prices. 
For financial instruments with no active markets, fair value 
are established using valuation techniques such as making 
reference  to  recent  transactions  or  other  comparable 
financial  instruments,  discounted  cash  flow  method  and 
option pricing models. To the extent practicable, valuation 
technique makes maximum use of market inputs. However, 
where market inputs are not available, management needs 
to make estimates on areas such as credit risk (both own 
and counterparty’s), volatility and correlation. Changes in 
assumptions about these factors could affect the reported 
fair value of financial instruments.Classification of investment
Significant management judgment is required in evaluating 
the classification of investments, since different classification 
will result in different accounting treatments and financial 
positions  of  the  Bank.  If  improper  judgement  on  the 
classification of investment is noticed after the balance sheet 
date, the Bank may need to reclassify the whole investment 
portfolio.Derecognition of financial instruments
The  management  of  the  Bank  has  assessed  and  made 
judgments on the extent to which it retains the risks and 
rewards of ownership of the financial instruments for the 
transferred  transactions  entered  into,  and  make  relevant 
accounting treatments accordingly.(31) Change in accounting policy
According to The Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises 
No.16 - Government Subsidies (Cai Kuai [2017] No.15), the bank 
shall separately present the “other income” item above the 
“Operating profits” item. Any government grant related to 
the daily activities of an enterprise shall be presented in 
the “other income” item instead of “non-operating income” 
item. To link up with the previous version of the standards, 
for  the  government  subsidies  obtained  before  January  1, 
2017, the prospective application method shall apply for the 
accounting treatment, for the newly increased government 
subsidies  from  January  1,  2017  to  the  value  date  of  the 
accounting  standards  (June  6,  2017),  the  adjustment  shall 
be made in accordance with this standards. The contents 
of  “other  income”,  “operating  profit”  and  “non-operating 
income” items for the year 2017 and 2016 are different, but 
the above-mentioned changes in accounting policies have no 
impacts on the “Net profit” item of the financial statements.UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|99五、税项5. Taxation本公司本年度主要税项及其税率列示如下：The major categories of tax applicable to the Bank and the 
respective  tax  rates  for  the  current  financial  year  are  as 
follows:增值税
Value-added tax城市维护建设税
City construction tax教育费附加
Educational surcharge企业所得税
Corporate income tax代扣缴个人所得税
Withholding Individual 
Income tax按应税收入的6%计算销项税，并按扣除当期允许抵扣的进项税额后的差额计缴增值税。
The Bank is subjected to a value-added tax rate of six per cent and pays value-added tax by the net amount after 
offsetting deductible input tax of the same period.按实际缴纳的流转税的7%计缴。
The Bank is subjected to a city construction tax rate of seven per cent on turnover tax.按实际缴纳的流转税的3%计缴。
The Bank is subjected to an educational surcharge rate of three per cent on turnover tax.按应纳税所得额的25%计缴。
The Bank is subjected to a corporate tax rate of 25 per cent.本公司支付给雇员的薪金，由本公司按税法代扣缴个人所得税。
In accordance with the relevant tax laws in the PRC, the Bank is required to withhold individual income tax on 
salaries paid to its employees.六、财务报表主要项目附注1. 现金及存放中央银行款项6. Notes to financial statements(1) Cash and deposit with the central bank库存现金Cash on hand31-12-201731-12-201613,235,12915,195,504存放中央银行法定准备金 - 人民币 Statutory deposit reserve with the Central Bank-RMB4,079,499,7303,404,331,250存放中央银行法定准备金 - 外币Statutory deposit reserve with the Central Bank-foreign currency124,229,477133,805,607存放中央银行外汇风险准备金Foreign exchange risk reserve with the Central Bank1,119,652,2451,809,709,137存放中央银行的其他款项Other deposits with the Central Bank合计Total1,832,921,6911,511,690,9477,169,538,2726,874,732,445根据中国人民银行的有关规定，本公司必须按一定比率缴付存款准
备金于中国人民银行。于 2017 年 12 月 31 日，本公司人民币及外币
存款准备金缴存比例分别为 15%（2016 年 12 月 31 日：15%）及 5%（2016
年 12 月 31 日：5%）。
 
从 2015 年 10 月至 2017 年 9 月，根据中国人民银行的有关规定，本
公司按月缴纳外汇风险准备金，每月按上月远期售汇签约额的 20%
缴存外汇风险准备金，并存放于中国人民银行一年。2017 年 9 月，
根据央行《中国人民银行关于调整外汇风险准备金政策的通知》（银
发 [2017]207 号），境内金融机构代客远期售汇业务所需提取的外汇
风险准备金率调整为 0%。The Bank places statutory deposit reserves with the People’s 
Bank of China (PBOC) in accordance with relevant regulations 
issued  by  it.  As  at  31  December  2017,  statutory  deposit 
reserves placed with the PBOC were calculated at 15 per cent 
(31 December 2016: 15 per cent) and 5 per cent (31 December 
2016:  5  per  cent)  of  qualified  RMB  deposits  and  foreign 
currency deposits from customers respectively.The  Bank  places  foreign  exchange  risk  reserve  with  the 
PBOC monthly in accordance with relevant regulations from 
October  2015  to  September  2017.  The  foreign  exchange 
risk reserve is calculated at 20 per cent of the contractual 
amount  of  forward  sales  of  exchanges  in  the  preceding 
month and will be reserved in the Central Bank for one year. 
Since September 2017, the foreign exchange risk reserve is 
calculated at zero per cent of the contractual amount of 
forward sales of exchanges in accordance with Yin Fa [2017] 
No.207 the Notice of the People's Bank of China on adjustment of 
foreign exchange risk reserve policy issued by PBOC.100 大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告|2. 存放同业款项(2) Due from banks31-12-201731-12-2016存放境内银行同业及其他金融机构Due from domestic banks and other financial institutions4,412,528,9394,057,714,343存放境外银行同业Due from overseas banks小计Sub-total612,577,690225,323,7005,025,106,6294,283,038,043减：存放同业减值准备（注1）Less: Impairment provisions for due from banks (Note 1)(2,556,795)(1,065,303)存放同业净额Net amount of due from banks5,022,549,8344,281,972,740注 1：存放同业减值准备为本公司根据银监发 [2010] 45 号《中国银监会关于
印发〈银行业金融机构国别风险管理指引〉的通知》的规定而计提的国别风
险减值准备。Note 1: Impairment provisions for due from banks represented the country risk 
reserve provided according to Yin Jian Fa [2010] No. 45 Circular of the China Banking 
Regulatory Commission on Printing and Distributing the Guidelines for Country Risk 
Management of the Banking Financial Institutions issued by CBRC.3. 拆出资金(3) Placements with banks and other financial institutions拆放及借出境内银行同业及
其他金融机构Placements with domestic banks and other financial institutions9,169,647,1598,677,677,152拆放及借出境外银行同业Placements with overseas banks360,916,090277,480,000减：拆放同业减值准备（注1）Less: Impairment provisions for placements (Note 1)(3,558,000)(2,535,590)拆出资金净额Net amount of placement with banks and other financial institutions9,527,005,2498,952,621,56231-12-201731-12-2016注 1：拆放同业减值准备为本公司根据银监发 [2010]45 号《中国银监会关于
印发〈银行业金融机构国别风险管理指引〉的通知》的规定而计提的国别风
险减值准备。Note  1:  Impairment  provisions  for  placements  represented  the  country  risk 
reserve provided according to Yin Jian Fa [2010] No. 45 Circular of the China Banking 
Regulatory Commission on Printing and Distributing the Guidelines for Country Risk 
Management of the Banking Financial Institutions issued by CBRC.4. 以公允价值计量且其变动计入当期损益的金融资产               (4) Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss31-12-201731-12-2016交易性金融资产Held-for-trading financial assets-债券投资：Bond investments:中央银行票据及国债Central bank bills and government bonds576,006,918--政策性银行债券Bonds issued by policy banks小计同业存单合计SubtotalNegotiable certificates of depositTotal568,748,40060,538,5001,144,755,31860,538,5001,341,611,5441,055,439,4442,486,366,8621,115,977,944UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|1015. 衍生金融工具
衍生金融工具指一种金融产品，其价值取决于其所依附的另一种“基
础性”金融产品指数或其他变量的价值。通常这些“基础性”产品
包括股票、大宗商品、债券市价、指数市价或汇率及利率等。本公
司运用的衍生金融工具包括远期合约、掉期及期权。衍生金融工具的名义金额是指其所依附的“基础性”资产的合同价值，
体现资产负债表日未结清的部分。该合同价值反映了会计核算期末
本公司的衍生金融工具的风险敞口而非公允价值。本公司无为套期保值目的而被指定为套期工具的衍生金融工具。本公司于资产负债表日所持有的衍生金融工具如下：(5) Derivative financial instruments
A derivative is a  financial  instrument, the  value of which 
is derived from the value of another “underlying” financial 
instrument, an index or some other variables. Typically, an 
“underlying” financial instrument is a share, commodity or 
bond price, an index value or an exchange or interest rate. 
The  Bank  uses  derivative  instruments  such  as  forwards, 
futures, swaps and options.The notional amount of a derivative represents the amount 
of underlying asset upon which the value of the derivative 
is  based.  It  indicates  the  unsettled  volume  of  business 
transaction  at  the  balance  sheet  date.  The  amount  of 
underlying asset reflects the risk exposure of derivative at 
the end of accounting period other than fair value.The Bank has no derivative designated as hedging instruments.The notional amount and fair value of the Bank’s derivative 
instruments are as follows:31-12-201731-12-2016公允价值Fair Value公允价值Fair Value名义金额资产负债Notional Amount AssetsLiabilities名义金额Notional 
Amount资产Assets负债Liabilities外汇衍生工具：Foreign exchange 
contracts:远期合约Forwards2,412,510,39076,850,30927,642,4002,977,512,97427,123,75881,246,219掉期合约期权合约小计SwapsOptionsSub-total483,505,869,2644,797,862,7895,110,463,233106,167,533,4631,640,380,2801,632,516,60969,640,429,480246,713,18381,200,10439,104,037,011191,865,101365,296,022555,558,809,1345,121,426,2815,219,305,737148,249,083,4481,859,369,1392,079,058,850利率衍生工具：Interest rate contracts:掉期合约Swaps65,785,969,296347,036,304362,451,59180,289,427,531452,215,754448,253,907小计Sub-total65,785,969,296347,036,304362,451,59180,289,427,531452,215,754448,253,907商品价格挂钩工具：Commodity contracts:掉期合约Swaps3,566,583,71265,873,68665,028,3633,914,728,52877,588,50276,098,431小计Sub-total3,566,583,71265,873,68665,028,3633,914,728,52877,588,50276,098,431股票价格挂钩工具：Equity contracts:掉期合约期权合约小计SwapsOptionsSub-total贵金属衍生工具Precious metal 
derivatives-1,165,033,1341,165,033,134-5,287,8385,287,838-136,723136,723165,599,968222,4964,364,4371,082,560,7496,240,3891,072,7081,248,160,7176,462,8855,437,1453,564,038,05336,544,31812,897,4013,289,604,5445,683,13538,713,952合计Total629,640,433,3295,576,168,4275,659,819,815236,991,004,7682,401,319,4152,647,562,285102 大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告|6. 买入返售金融资产(6) Reverse repurchase financial assets按交易对手分类：Classified by counter-party:BanksClassified by type of pledged assets:Bonds银行同业按质押品分类：债券7. 应收利息201731-12-201731-12-20161,344,195,000536,900,0001,344,195,000536,900,000(7) Interest receivables年初余额本年计提本年收到年末余额Opening balanceAccruedReceivedClosing balance贷款应收利息Interest receivable on loans98,534,7051,130,561,053(1,082,185,217)146,910,541债券投资应收利息Interest receivable on bonds65,725,810187,297,934(190,650,321)62,373,423同业应收利息Interest receivable from banks22,909,481491,356,660(485,319,364)28,946,777买入返售债券应收利息 Interest receivable on reverse repurchase bonds366,44716,558,247(15,413,760)1,510,934合计2016Total187,536,4431,825,773,894(1,773,568,662)239,741,675年初余额Opening balance本年计提Accrued本年收到年末余额Received Closing balance贷款应收利息Interest receivable on loans123,342,5491,006,547,312(1,031,355,156)98,534,705债券投资应收利息Interest receivable on bonds同业应收利息Interest receivable from banks94,526,291148,747,446(177,547,927)15,359,331307,443,439(299,893,289)买入返售债券应收利息 Interest receivable on reverse repurchase bonds-9,382,370(9,015,923)65,725,81022,909,481366,447合计Total8. 发放贷款和垫款8.1 按个人和企业分布个人贷款和垫款：Individual loans and advances:住房按揭其他小计MortgagesOthersSub-total企业贷款和垫款：Corporate loans and advances:贷款贴现贸易融资小计贷款和垫款总额LoansDiscounted billsTrade financeSub-totalTotal减：贷款损失准备Less: Loan impairment provision贷款和垫款账面价值Net value of loans and advances to customers233,228,1711,472,120,567(1,517,812,295)187,536,443(8) Loans and advances to customers(8.1) Distribution of loans and advances by individual and corporate31-12-201731-12-20166,681,291,0393,368,3646,684,659,40315,786,000,878864,418,6884,349,778,53921,000,198,10527,684,857,508(548,260,721)27,136,596,7876,302,047,1033,839,3406,305,886,44314,799,214,194444,182,5102,852,039,98618,095,436,69024,401,323,133(514,107,074)23,887,216,059UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|1038.2 按行业分布(8.2) Distribution of loans and advances to customers by industry31-12-2017账面余额比例 (%)AmountPercentage( %)制造业房地产业批发和零售业住宿和餐饮业ManufacturingReal estatesWholesale and retailAccommodation and catering租赁和商务服务业Leasing and commercial services信息传输、软件和信息技术服务业Telecommunication, software and information 
management service交通运输、仓储和邮政业Transportation, storage and post金融业建筑业农林牧渔业FinanceConstructionAgriculture, forestry, farming and fishing电力、热力、燃气及水生产和供应业Electricity, heat, gas and water supply科学研究和技术服务业Scientific research and technical services居民服务、修理和其他服务业Residents services, repair and other services卫生，社会保障和社会福利业Health, social security and social welfare水利、环境和公共设施管理业Water conservancy, environment and public facilities 
administration个人贷款贷款和垫款总额Personal creditTotal amount of loans and advances减：贷款损失准备Less: Loan impairment provision贷款和垫款账面价值Net value of loans and advances6,886,974,3765,368,776,8454,510,605,4601,510,671,427758,546,299541,938,086372,827,537364,859,686289,265,974188,312,865113,911,66383,140,7858,000,0002,367,102-6,684,659,40327,684,857,508(548,260,721)27,136,596,78725%20%16%6%3%2%1%1%1%1%0%0%0%0%0%24%100%104 大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告|制造业房地产业批发和零售业住宿和餐饮业ManufacturingReal estatesWholesale and retailAccommodation and catering租赁和商务服务业Leasing and commercial services信息传输、软件和信息技术服务业Telecommunication, software and information 
management service交通运输、仓储和邮政业Transportation, storage and post金融业建筑业农林牧渔业FinanceConstructionAgriculture, forestry, farming and fishing电力、热力、燃气及水生产和供应业Electricity, heat, gas and water supply科学研究和技术服务业Scientific research and technical services居民服务、修理和其他服务业Residents services, repair and other services卫生，社会保障和社会福利业Health, social security and social welfare水利、环境和公共设施管理业Water conservancy, environment and  public facilities 
administration个人贷款贷款和垫款总额Personal creditTotal amount of loans and advances减：贷款损失准备Less: Loan impairment provision贷款和垫款账面价值Net value of loans and advances31-12-2016账面余额Amount5,093,913,1994,553,699,0154,138,053,4891,957,586,311369,347,257563,824,662651,132,209-330,185,584204,962,270215,603,8974,228,7974,500,000-8,400,0006,305,886,44324,401,323,133(514,107,074)23,887,216,059比例 (%)Percentage( %)21%19%17%8%1%2%3%0%1%1%1%0%0%0%0%26%100%8.3 按地区分布(8.3) Distribution of loans and advances to customers bygeographical region东北华东华北华中华南西南西北境外地区贷款和垫款总额减：贷款损失准备贷款和垫款账面价值North-eastEastNorthCentralSouthSouth-westNorth-west
OverseasTotal amount of loans and advancesLess: Loan impairment provisionNet value of loans and advances31-12-2017919,983,65915,131,718,6024,220,128,887380,899,3863,755,672,8571,948,988,78581,232,060 
1,246,233,27227,684,857,508(548,260,721)27,136,596,78731-12-2016912,680,48313,753,535,1004,115,902,136227,948,9042,140,709,0892,077,960,123109,976,948
1,062,610,35024,401,323,133(514,107,074)23,887,216,059UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|1058.4 按担保方式分布(8.4) Loans and advances to customers by type of collateral orguarantee信用贷款保证贷款Unsecured loansGuaranteed loans附担保物贷款Loans with collaterals其中：抵押贷款质押贷款Of which:Secured by mortgagesSecured by pledges贷款和垫款总额Total amount of loans and  advances减：贷款损失准备Less: Loan impairment  provision贷款和垫款账面价值Net value of loans and  advances8.5 逾期贷款(8.5) Overdue Loan31-12-20165,045,246,3472,571,771,92816,784,304,85813,463,871,1813,320,433,67724,401,323,133(514,107,074)23,887,216,05931-12-20174,374,833,2954,167,047,02319,142,977,19015,236,029,7333,906,947,45727,684,857,508(548,260,721)27,136,596,78731-12-2017逾期1天至90天Overdue 1 day  to 
90 days逾期91天至1年
（含1年）
Overdue 91  days to 
1 year (inclusive)逾期1年至3年 
（含3年）
Overdue 1 year to 
3 years(inclusive)逾期3年以上Overdue  3 years  
above合计Total信用贷款担保贷款Unsecured loansGuaranteed  loans----1,866,66013,539,928--1,866,66013,539,928附担保物贷款Loans with collaterals18,018,8201,942,385162,046,91031,601,717  213,609,832其中：抵押贷款合计Of which:Secured by mortgagesTotal18,018,82018,018,8201,942,3851,942,38531,601,717213,609,83231,601,717229,016,420162,046,910177,453,49831-12-2016逾期1天至90天Overdue 1 day  to 
90 days逾期91天至1年
（含1年）
Overdue 91  days to 
1 year (inclusive)逾期1年至3年 
（含3年）
Overdue 1 year to 
3 years(inclusive)逾期3年以上Overdue  3 years  
above合计Total信用贷款保证贷款Unsecured loansGuaranteed  loans----4,286,845-4,286,845-3,553,8723,553,872附担保物贷款Loans with collaterals369,70745,798,906243,481,08818,352,302 308,002,003其中：抵押贷款质押贷款合计Of which:Secured by mortgagesSecured by  pledgesTotal369,70745,798,906164,989,79818,352,302229,510,713--78,491,290-78,491,290369,70745,798,906247,767,93321,906,174315,842,720逾期贷款是指本金或利息逾期 1 天或以上的贷款。
Overdue loans are loans of which the principals or related interests are overdue for one day or above.106 大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告|8.6 贷款损失准备（附注六、14）(8.6) Loan impairment provision(Note 6.14)年初余额本年计提本年核销Opening balanceCharge during the yearWriting off during the year收回以前年度核销数Recovery of loans and advances previously written off汇率差异年末余额Exchange rate differenceClosing balance年初余额本年计提Opening balanceCharge during the year收回以前年度核销数Recovery of loans and advances previously written off汇率差异年末余额Exchange rate differenceClosing balance单项Individual2017组合Collective合计Total165,446,482348,660,592514,107,0744,083,051127,746,737131,829,788(91,912,565)958,143--(91,912,565)958,143(1,941,656)(4,780,063)(6,721,719)76,633,455471,627,266548,260,7212016单项组合IndividualCollective合计Total99,273,351353,620,936452,894,28765,620,007(10,558,295)55,061,71290,198462,926-90,1985,597,9516,060,877165,446,482348,660,592514,107,0749. 可供出售金融资产(9) Available-for-sale financial assets债券投资：Bond investments:中央银行票据及国债Central Bank bills and government bonds政策性银行债券Bonds issued by policy banks小计同业存单合计Sub-totalNegotiable certificate of depositsTotal31-12-201731-12-20162,875,525,02299,937,8402,975,462,8621,393,762,4114,369,225,2732,977,840,723201,090,0403,178,930,763578,707,1573,757,637,920UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|10710. 固定资产(10) Fixed assets2017原价：Cost:房屋及建筑物运输设备办公及电脑设备Properties and 
buildingsMotor vehiclesOffice  equipment and  
computers合计Total2017 年 1 月 1 日At 1 January 20175,793,6902,508,008111,463,967119,765,665本年增加Additions本年在建工程转入 
（附注六、13.2）Transfer from construction  in progress 
(Note 6. 13.2)本年处置Disposals---368,173-9,960,98010,329,1533,189,8463,189,846(338,000)(9,294,397)(9,632,397)2017 年 12 月 31 日At 31 December 20175,793,6902,538,181115,320,396123,652,267累计折旧：Accumulated  depreciation:2017 年 1 月 1 日At 1 January 2017本年计提本年处置AdditionsDisposals1,796,047115,8741,671,154389,31177,283,08480,750,28511,693,84712,199,032-(338,000)(8,010,034)(8,348,034)2017 年 12 月 31 日At 31 December 20171,911,9211,722,46580,966,89784,601,283固定资产净值及净额Net book value and net  carrying amount2017 年 12 月 31 日At 31 December 20173,881,769815,71634,353,49939,050,9842016原价：Cost:2016 年 1 月 1 日At 1 January 2016本年增加Additions本年在建工程转入 
（附注六、13.2）Transfer from construction  in progress 
(Note 6. 13.2)本年处置Disposals房屋及建筑物运输设备办公及电脑设备Properties and 
buildingsMotor vehiclesOffice equipment and  
computers合计Total-2,508,00895,034,81697,542,8245,793,690-----11,812,78317,606,4735,635,5245,635,524(1,019,156)(1,019,156)2016 年 12 月 31 日At 31 December 20165,793,6902,508,008111,463,967119,765,665累计折旧：Accumulated  depreciation:2016 年 1 月 1 日At 1 January 2016本年计提本年处置AdditionsDisposals-1,796,047-1,270,524400,630-65,464,53166,735,05512,730,74914,927,426(912,196)(912,196)2016 年 12 月 31 日At 31 December 20161,796,0471,671,15477,283,08480,750,285固定资产净值及净额Net book value and net  carrying amount2016 年 12 月 31 日At 31 December 20163,997,643836,85434,180,88339,015,380于 2017 年 12 月 31 日及 2016 年 12 月 31 日，房屋及建筑物为本公司融资租入的办公用房。
As at 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016, the properties and buildings represent the office capitilised under finance lease.108 大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告|11. 无形资产(11) Intangible assets20172016软件设备原价：年初余额本年购置在建工程转入（附注六、13.2）年末余额累计摊销：年初账面余额本年计提年末余额SoftwareCost or valuation:Opening balanceAdditionsTransfer from  construction in 
progress (Note 6. 13.2)Closing balanceAccumulated  amortisation:Opening balanceAdditionsClosing balance无形资产净值及净额Net carrying amount165,733,0882,236,59834,549,902202,519,58864,787,68919,183,21683,970,905115,757,7764,063,50545,911,807165,733,08851,345,18813,442,50164,787,689年末余额Closing balance118,548,683100,945,39912. 递延所得税资产2017(12) Deferred tax assets递延所得税资产Deferred tax assets年初余额本年计入损益贷款损失准备Loan impairment provision其他资产损失准备Bad debt allowance for other assets可供出售金融资产未实现损益Unrealised profit or loss on available-
for-sale financial assetsOpening 
balance52,019,101351,475181,384衍生金融工具公允价值变动损益 Changes in fair value  of derivatives(22,465,656)拆入黄金公允价值变动Changes in fair value of gold from 
banks预提职工工资及奖金Payroll payables嵌入期权结构性存款 
公允价值变动损益Changes in fair value of structured 
deposits embedded with options预提费用可抵扣亏损其他合计Accrued liabilitiesDeductible tax lossesOthersTotal(6,333,243)1,797,6034,381,0992,386,34622,178,1872,783,41557,279,711Credited/(Charged) 
to income statement19,881,824(351,475)本年直接计入 
所有者权益
Credited/(Charged) 
to equity--年末余额Closing 
balance71,900,925--2,310,9532,492,337(46,759,189)13,529,929904,1841,490,2418,006,705(2,958,734)(1,439,210)(7,695,725)-------(69,224,845)7,196,6862,701,7875,871,34010,393,05119,219,4531,344,2052,310,95351,894,939UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|1092016递延所得税资产Deferred tax assets年初余额本年计入损益Opening 
balanceCredited/(Charged) 
to income statement本年直接计入 
所有者权益
Credited/(Charged) 
to equity贷款损失准备Loan impairment provision54,616,162其他资产损失准备Bad debt allowance for other assets-可供出售金融资产未实现损益Unrealised profit or loss on available-
for-sale financial assets(5,327,517)衍生金融工具公允价值变动损益 Changes in fair value  of derivatives(552,582)-3,008,716(5,353,646)12,559,236-5,098,31464,048,683拆入黄金公允价值变动Changes in fair value of gold from 
banks预提职工工资及奖金Payroll payables嵌入期权结构性存款 
公允价值变动损益Changes in fair value of structured 
deposits embedded with options预提费用Accrued liabilities可抵扣亏损Deductible tax losses其他合计OthersTotal于 2017 年 12 月 31 日，本公司根据对未来的盈利预测，以很可能取
得用来抵扣可抵扣亏损的未来应纳税所得额为限确认的与人民币
76,877,811 元可抵扣亏损相关的递延所得税资产为人民币 19,219,453 元，
到期日为 2021 年。于 2016 年 12 月 31 日，本公司根据对未来的盈利预测，以很可能取
得用来抵扣可抵扣亏损的未来应纳税所得额为限确认的与人民币
88,712,748 元可抵扣亏损相关的递延所得税资产为人民币 22,178,187
元，可抵扣亏损中人民币 4,405,385 的到期日为 2019 年，人民币
63,414,341 的到期日为 2020 年，人民币 20,893,022 的到期日为 2021 年。年末余额Closing 
balance52,019,101351,475(2,597,061)351,475---5,508,901181,384(21,913,074)(6,333,243)(1,211,113)9,734,745(10,172,890)22,178,187(2,314,899)(12,277,873)-(22,465,656)(6,333,243)1,797,6034,381,0992,386,34622,178,1872,783,415-----5,508,90157,279,711As at 31 December 2017, based on the profit forecast and 
to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit 
will be available against which the unused tax loesses can 
be utilised, the Bank recognised deferred tax asset of RMB 
19,219,453 arising from unused tax losses of RMB76,877,811, 
among which will expire in Year 2021.As at 31 December 2016, based on the profit forecast and 
to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit 
will be available against which the unused tax loesses can 
be utilised, the Bank recognised deferred tax asset of RMB 
22,178,187 arising from unused tax losses of RMB88,712,718, 
among which RMB4,405,385 will expire in Year 2019, RMB
63,414,341 will expire in Year 2020 and RMB20,893,022 will 
expire in Year 2021.13. 其他资产(13) Other assets长期待摊费用Long-term deferred expenses在建工程其他应收款Construction in processOther receivables待认证进项税额Input VAT to be verified合计Total附注 
Notes13.113.213.331-12-201789,699,7399,414,116314,982,8094,077,802418,174,46631-12-201672,168,35833,196,97758,415,9623,010,521166,791,818110 大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告|13.1 长期待摊费用(13.1) Long-term deferred expenses2017年初余额本年增加Opening balanceAdditions本年在建工程转入 
（附注六、13.2）Transfer from  construction in  
progress (Note 6. 13.2)本年摊销年末余额2016年初余额本年增加AmortisationClosing balanceOpening balanceAdditions本年在建工程转入 
（附注六、13.2）Transfer from  construction in  
progress (Note 6. 13.2)本年处置本年摊销年末余额DisposalAmortisationClosing balance会员费租入固定资产改良支出Membership feeLeasehold improvement112,0311,500,000-(81,837)1,530,19472,056,3273,541,36128,591,727(16,019,870)88,169,545会员费租入固定资产改良支出Membership feeLeasehold improvement116,068---(4,037)112,03132,267,80517,901,34438,691,221(188,594)(16,615,449)72,056,327租赁费Rental fee2,958,920--(2,958,920)--(13.2) Construction in progress13.2 在建工程年初余额本年增加Opening balanceAdditions转入固定资产 （附注六、10）Transfer to fixed assets (Note 6. 10)转入无形资产 （附注六、11）Transfer to intangible assets (Note 6. 11)转入长期待摊费用 （附注六、13.1） Transfer to long-term deferred expenses (Note 6. 13.1)年末净值Net closing balance201733,196,97742,548,614(3,189,846)(34,549,902)(28,591,727)9,414,116合计Total72,168,3585,041,36128,591,727(16,101,707)89,699,739合计Total35,342,79317,901,34438,691,221(3,147,514)(16,619,486)72,168,358201634,464,26488,971,265(5,635,524)(45,911,807)(38,691,221)33,196,977UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|11113.3 其他应收款(13.3) Other receivables账龄1 年以内1-2 年2-3 年3 年以上小计AgeingWithin 1 year1-2 years2-3 yearsMore than 3 yearsSub-total减：坏账准备Less: Bad debt allowance合计Total31-12-2017288,365,21414,934,5543,423,2728,259,769314,982,809-314,982,80931-12-201633,115,61510,172,1184,711,64811,822,48259,821,863(1,405,901)58,415,96214. 资产减值准备(14) Provision for impairment losses2017存放同业减值准备 
（附注六、2）
拆放同业减值准备 
（附注六、3）
贷款损失准备 
（附注六、 8.6）
其他应收款坏账准备
( 附注六、13.3)Impairment  provision for due 
from  banks (Note 6.2)
Impairment  provision for 
placements  with banks (Note 6.3)
Impairment  provision for loans
 (Note 6. 8.6)
Bad debt allowance for other 
assets (Note 6.13.3)收回以前 
年度核销
Recovery of 
assets previously 
written-off年初余额本年计提 / 
（转回）额Opening 
balanceAccrual/
(Reversal)1,065,3031,491,4922,535,5901,022,410本年核销汇率差异年末余额Writing off 
during the yearExchange rate  
differenceClosing 
balance------2,556,7953,558,000514,107,074131,829,788958,143(91,912,565)(6,721,719)548,260,7211,405,901(165,203)-(1,240,698)--合计Total519,113,868134,178,487958,143(93,153,263)(6,721,719)554,375,5162016存放同业减值准备 
（附注六、2）
拆放同业减值准备 
（附注六、3）
贷款损失准备 
（附注六、 8.6）
其他应收款坏账准备
( 附注六、13.3)Impairment  provision for due 
from  banks (Note 6.2)
Impairment  provision for 
placements  with banks (Note 6.3)
Impairment  provision for loans
 (Note 6. 8.6)
Bad debt allowance for other 
assets (Note 6.13.3)其他合计OthersTotal年初余额本年计提 / 
（转回）额Opening 
balanceAccrual/
(Reversal)收回以前 
年度核销
Recovery of 
assets previously 
written-off汇率差异年末余额Exchange rate  
differenceClosing 
balance5,984,132(4,918,829)3,958,560(1,422,970)----1,065,3032,535,590452,894,28755,061,71290,1986,060,877514,107,074-1,405,901422,084(422,084)----1,405,901-463,259,06349,703,73090,1986,060,877519,113,868112 大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告|15. 同业及其他金融机构存放款项(15) Due to banks and other financial institutions境内银行同业及其他金融机构存放 Due to domestic banks and other financial institutions1,2022,150,006,266境外银行同业存放Due to overseas banks合计16. 拆入资金Total874,156,157874,157,359956,322,8773,106,329,143(16) Placements from banks and other financial institutions31-12-201731-12-2016境内银行同业拆入及借入Placements from domestic banks31-12-2017522,736,00031-12-2016138,740,000境外银行同业拆入及借入Placements from overseas banks18,752,081,00414,163,023,721合计Total19,274,817,00414,301,763,721于 2017 年 12 月 31 日，境外银行同业拆入及借入中，以公允价值
计量且其变动计入当期损益的黄金拆入余额为人民币 2,397,504,245
元 (2016 年 12 月 31 日：529,767,027 元 )。 于 2017 年 12 月 31 日，
以公允价值计量且其变动计入当期损益的同业拆入余额为人民币
1,362,073,633 元 (2016 年 12 月 31 日：人民币 1,578,387,461 元 )。As at 31 December 2017, of the placements from overseas 
banks, the balance of gold borrowing at fair value through 
profit or loss amounted to RMB2,397,504,245 (RMB529,767,027 
as at 31 December 2016). As at 31 December 31, 2017, the balance 
of the interbank placements at fair value through profit or 
loss amounted to RMB1,362,073,633 (RMB1,578,387,461 as at 31 
December 2016).17. 吸收存款(17) Customer deposits活期存款公司客户个人客户小计定期存款公司客户个人客户小计合计Current depositsCorporate customersIndividual customersSub-totalTime depositsCorporate customersIndividual customersSub-totalTotal于 2017 年 12 月 31 日，吸收存款中包含的结构性存款余额为人民币
6,397,752,674 元 (2016 年 12 月 31 日：人民币 3,746,790,268 元 )，其中
嵌入的衍生金融工具，主要为期权、股票价格挂钩掉期及商品价格
挂钩掉期等。上述结构性存款中所嵌入的衍生金融工具被认定为与
主合同没有密切联系，其中人民币 995,287,361 元 (2016 年 12 月 31 日：
人民币 1,126,344,436 元 ) 的结构性存款被整体指定以公允价值计量。
剩余人民币 5,402,465,313 元 (2016 年 12 月 31 日：人民币 2,620,445,832 元 )
未被指定，本公司因此将其中的嵌入式衍生金融工具与存款分拆，
其公允价值已计入衍生金融工具余额中。31-12-201731-12-20167,775,205,953613,234,9968,388,440,94919,999,410,6831,884,960,58321,884,371,26630,272,812,2157,253,209,184603,464,3987,856,673,58215,057,807,6242,270,824,54517,328,632,16925,185,305,751As at 31 December 2017, the structured deposits in customer 
deposits amounted to RMB6,397,752,674(RMB3,746,790,268 
as  at  31  December  2016).  These  structured  deposits  are 
embedded  with  derivatives  which  are  mainly  options, 
equity  swaps  and  commodity  swaps,  and  are  considered 
not  closely  related  to  the  host  contract.  RMB995,287,361 
(RMB1,126,344,436 as at 31 December 2016) of these structured 
deposits are designated as at fair value through profit or loss 
as a whole while the rest RMB5,402,465,313(RMB2,620,445,832
as at 31 December 2016) are not designated. Consequently, 
the derivatives instruments embedded therein are separated 
and the fair value is recorded in derivative assets or liabilities.UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|11318. 应付职工薪酬(18) Payroll payables未付金额Amount unpaid工资、奖金、津贴和补贴Salary, bonus,  subsidy and  allowance社会保险费Social insurance工会经费和职工教育经费Labour union expenditure and staff education fee设定提存计划Defined contribution plan其中：基本养老保险费Of which:  Pension fund企业年金缴费Annuity合计应付金额TotalAmount payables工资、奖金、津贴和补贴Salary, bonus,  subsidy and  allowance社会保险费住房公积金Social insuranceHousing fund工会经费和职工教育经费Labour union  expenditure and staff education fee设定提存计划Defined contribution  plan其中：基本养老保险费Of which:  Pension fund企业年金缴费Annuity其他与员工相关的费用Other staff related expenses31-12-201776,915,6201,820,54239,9109,251,3333,750,3435,500,99088,027,4052017457,070,48123,098,41020,246,8504,563,90443,802,81737,083,7196,719,09817,906,62031-12-201658,571,5594,206,59343,97710,742,8295,515,0685,227,76173,564,9582016416,295,18322,728,43818,430,2806,638,99840,587,62434,587,2866,000,33817,368,167合计Total566,689,082522,048,69019. 应交税费(19) Tax payables增值税附加税代扣代缴税项其他合计Value added taxTax surchargesWithholding taxOthersTotal31-12-201718,349,2712,210,50032,082,170155,58352,797,52431-12-201613,819,5051,858,54328,369,480137,31944,184,847114 大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告|20. 应付利息2017(20) Interest payables年初余额Opening balance本年计提Accrued本年支付年末余额PaidClosing balance存款应付利息Interest  payable to depositors217,498,754562,622,331(525,146,267)254,974,818Interest payable to
banks and  othersTotal同业应付利息及其他合计201672,642,432270,049,669(299,269,983)43,422,118290,141,186832,672,000(824,416,250)298,396,936年初余额Opening balance本年计提Accrued本年支付年末余额PaidClosing balance存款应付利息Interest  payable to depositors298,966,683543,857,535(625,325,464)217,498,754同业应付利息及其他Interest payable to
banks and  others53,607,087132,273,868(113,238,523)72,642,432合计Total352,573,770676,131,403(738,563,987)290,141,18621. 其他负债(21) Other liabilities待结算及清算款项Settlement and clearing应付 IT 系统服务费IT system service feeRenovation payableOthersTotal装修尾款其他合计22. 实收资本注册及实收资本31-12-2017100,966,74145,117,2348,428,85830,197,377184,710,21031-12-20163,144,68115,499,4047,990,19249,263,50175,897,778(22) Paid-up capitalPaid-up capital20172016等值人民币%等值人民币%RMB equivalentRMB equivalent大华银行有限公司United Overseas Bank Limited5,500,000,0001005,500,000,00010023. 资本公积
资本公积系本公司为换取员工服务，实施的股份支付计划下，以权益
结算的股份支付计入资本公积的余额。(23) Capital reserve
In  exchange  for  employee  service,  the Bank runs  a  share-
based compensation program which is equity settled with a 
corresponding charge to the capital reserve.UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|11524. 其他综合收益
资产负债表中其他综合收益累积余额：(24) Other comprehensive income
Accumulated balance of other comprehensive income in the 
balance sheet:增减变动1-1-2017Increase/(decrease)31-12-2017可供出售金融资产公允价值变动 Fair value changes of available-for-sale financial assets(544,152)(6,932,858)(7,477,010)增减变动1-1-2016Increase/(decrease)31-12-2016可供出售金融资产公允价值变动 Fair value changes of available-for-sale financial assets15,982,550(16,526,702)(544,152)利润表中其他综合收益当期发生额：Other comprehensive income in the income statement:2017以后将重分类进损 
益的其他综合收益可供出售金融资产 
公允价值变动Items that may be  reclassified  subsequently to the  
income statement
Fair value changes  of available-for-sale financial 
assets2016以后将重分类进损 
益的其他综合收益
可供出售金融资产 
公允价值变动Items that may be  reclassified  subsequently to the  
income statement
Fair value changes  of available-for-sale financial 
assets税前金额Before tax减：前期计入 
其他综合收益 
当期转入损益
Less: Transfer to  the 
income  statement减：所得税 税后金额Less: TaxAfter tax(9,243,811)-2,310,953(6,932,858)税前金额Before tax减：前期计入 
其他综合收益 
当期转入损益
Less: Transfer to  the 
income  statement减：所得税 税后金额Less: TaxAfter tax(22,035,603)-5,508,901(16,526,702)25. 盈余公积(25) Surplus reserves年初余额本年增加年末余额Openning balanceIncreaseClosing balance根据公司法和本公司章程的规定，并经 2018 年 3 月 23 日董事会决议，
本公司按净利润的 10% 提取法定盈余公积金。法定盈余公积累计额为
本公司注册资本 50% 以上的，可不再提取。116 大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告|201786,426,11313,600,394100,026,507201682,099,7924,326,32186,426,113According  to  the Company Law of the PRC  and  the  Bank’s 
Articles of Association, accompanied with resolution passed 
by the Board of Directors on 23 March 2018, the Bank has 
appropriated 10 per cent of its profit to the statutory surplus 
reserves. The Bank should appropriate until the reserve balance 
reaches 50 per cent of its registered capital or above.本公司在提取法定盈余公积金后，可提取任意盈余公积金。经批准，
任意盈余公积金可用于弥补以前年度亏损或增加股本。根据本公司董
事会会议的决议，本年度不提取任意盈余公积金。After  the  statutory  surplus  reserves  are  appropriated, 
the  Bank  may  appropriate  discretionary  surplus  reserves. 
Discretionary surplus reserves can be used to compensate 
for the accumulated losses of previous years or convert to 
capital upon approval. It has been determined by the Board of 
Directors of the Bank that no discretionary surplus reserves are 
to be appropriated this year.26. 一般风险准备(26) General reserves年初余额本年增加年末余额Openning balanceIncreaseClosing balance本公司依照财金 [2012]20 号文《金融企业准备金计提管理办法》的规
定，从税后利润中按原则上不低于风险资产期末余额 1.5% 的比例计提
一般风险准备，作为利润分配处理。本公司根据 2018 年 3 月 23 日的
董事会决议，提取一般风险准备计人民币 120,036,929 元，一般风险准
备余额已达到风险资产期末余额 1.5%。2017588,421,509120,036,929708,458,4382016564,261,21324,160,296588,421,509According  to  the  regulation  CaiJin  [2012]  No.  20 Financial 
institution provision measurement Guideline, the Bank is required 
to set aside general reserves of at least 1.5 per cent of its total 
risk assets at year end from net profit. The Bank appropriated 
general reserve amounting to RMB 120,036,929 according to 
the resolution passed by the Board of Directors on 23 March 
2018 and the amount has been up to 1.5 per cent of its total 
risk assets.27. 未分配利润(27) Retained earnings年初未分配利润Retained earnings brought forward净利润Net profit for the year减：提取法定盈余公积Less: Appropriation to statutory surplus reserves提取一般风险准备Less: Appropriation to general reserves年末未分配利润Closing balance of retained earnings2017480,168,283136,003,938(13,600,394)(120,036,929)482,534,8982016465,391,68943,263,211(4,326,321)(24,160,296)480,168,283根据《中华人民共和国公司法》及本公司的公司章程，本公司利润在 (1)
满足所有税务责任；(2) 弥补以前年度亏损；(3) 提取法定盈余公积金；
(4) 提取一般风险准备；(5) 提取任意盈余公积金后，可以利润分配形
式分配给股东。一般风险准备及各项基金的提取比例在符合有关法规
的前提下，由本公司董事会决定。分配利润的决定由本公司董事会决定，并参考营运结果、财务状况及
其他有关的原因而厘定。According to the Company Law of the PRC and the Articles 
of Association of the Bank, the profit of the Bank can only 
be  distributed  to  shareholders  after  (1)  fulfilling  all  tax 
responsibilities; (2) compensating any accumulated losses; (3) 
making appropriation to statutory surplus reserves; (4) making 
appropriation to the general reserves; (5) making appropriation 
to discretionary surplus reserves.  The appropriation ratios 
of the general reserves and surplus reserves are decided by 
the Bank's Board of Directors in compliance with relevant 
regulations.The profit appropriation is decided by the Board of Directors 
of the Bank, with reference to the operating performance, 
financial positions, and other relevant factors.UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|11728. 利息净收入(28) Net interest income利息收入：Interest income:存放及拆放同业Due from banks and placement with banks and other financial institutions421,172,427244,158,38120172016存放中央银行Due from the Central Bank发放贷款和垫款Loans and advances to customers买入返售债券Reverse repurchase financial  assets-bonds小计利息支出：Sub-totalInterest expense:同业及其他金融机构存放Due to banks and other financial institutions吸收存款Customer deposits70,184,23361,538,8551,130,561,0531,008,293,51516,558,2479,382,3701,638,475,9601,323,373,1217,789,64410,704,636562,622,331543,857,535拆入资金及其他Placement from banks and other financial institutions and others262,260,025121,569,232小计利息净收入Sub-totalNet interest income832,672,000676,131,403805,803,960647,241,71829. 手续费及佣金净收入(29) Net fees and commission income2017201620,724,42422,650,54910,395,3146,334,28533,473,12230,265,68759,015,65785,092,83826,861,13519,076,803150,469,652163,420,16235,493,37028,080,60435,493,37028,080,604114,976,282135,339,558手续费及佣金收入：Fees and commission income:结算与清算手续费Settlement and clearing fees代理业务手续费Agency brokerage fees信用承诺手续费Credit commitment fees与授信有关的收入Credit related income其他小计OthersSub-total手续费及佣金支出：Fees and commission expense:手续费支出小计Fee expensesSub-total手续费及佣金净收入Net fees and commission income118 大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告|30. 投资收益(30) Investment income为交易而持有的债券投资净收益Gain on disposal of held-for-trading bond investments(1,907,121)8,007,257衍生金融工具已实现净损益Net realised gain / (loss) on derivatives债券投资利息收入Bond interest income合计Total65,823,54921,674,248187,297,934                148,747,446251,214,362178,428,95131. 公允价值变动净收益(31) Gains from changes in fair values20172016以公允价值计量的金融资产Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss衍生金融工具拆入黄金Derivative financial instrumentsGold borrowing结构性存款及其他Structured deposits and others合计Total201720161,274,015(7,715,585)186,335,90335,973,686(54,119,717)25,332,973(7,550,001)11,597,019125,940,20065,188,09332. 汇兑及汇率产品净损失(32) Foreign exchange loss汇兑及汇率产品净损失包括与自营外汇业务相关的汇差收入、外汇掉
期及交叉货币掉期金融工具产生的已实现和未实现的公允价值变动损
益以及外币货币性资产和负债折算产生的汇兑损益。Foreign  exchange loss includes  foreign  exchange  earnings 
related to self operated foreign exchange business, realised and 
unrealised gains and losses arising from foreign exchange swap 
and cross currency swap, and exchange gains and losses arising 
from conversion of foreign currency assets and liabilities.33. 其他收益(33) Other income与收益相关的政府补助Income-related on government subsidies20176,026,1142016-34. 业务及管理费(34) General and administrative expenses员工费用折旧费资产摊销费业务费用合计Staff costsDepreciationAmortisationOther operating expensesTotal20172016562,906,730522,048,69012,199,03214,927,42635,284,92330,061,987263,491,262247,133,468873,881,947814,171,571UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|11935. 资产减值损失(35) Impairment losses存放同业减值损失拆放同业减值损失贷款减值损失Impairment losses for due from banksImpairment losses for placements with banksImpairment losses for loans其他应收款减值损失Impairment losses for other receivables其他合计OthersTotal201720161,491,492(4,918,829)1,022,410(1,422,970)131,829,78855,061,712(165,203)1,405,901-(422,084)134,178,48749,703,73036. 所得税费用(36) Income tax expenses递延所得税Deferred income tax expenses20177,695,725201613,553,711所得税费用与利润总额的关系列示如下：The reconciliation of income tax expenses to profit before tax 
is as follows:税前利润Profit before tax按法定税率 25％计算的税项Tax charge on a tax rate at 25 per cent对以前期间税项的调整Adjustment in respect of prior periods免税的国债利息收入Interest income of government bonds不可抵扣的税项费用Non-deductible items未确认的可抵扣暂时性差异的影响 Unrecognised deductible temporary differences利用以前年度可抵扣亏损Use of previous annual deductible losses所得税费用Income tax expenses2017143,699,66335,924,9166,402,960(17,065,157)3,214,245-(20,781,239)7,695,725201656,816,92214,204,231(577,058)(18,580,496)2,729,11115,777,923-13,553,711120 大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告|37. 现金流量表补充资料(37) Supplementary information for the statement of cash 
        flows1、将净利润调节为经营活动的现金流量： 1. Reconciliation of net profit to cash flows from operating activities:净利润资产减值损失固定资产折旧无形资产摊销Net profitImpairment lossesFixed assets depreciationAmortisation expenses for intangible assets长期待摊费用摊销Amortisation for long-term deferred expenses20172016136,003,93843,263,211134,178,48749,703,73012,199,03214,927,42619,183,21613,442,50116,101,70716,619,486处置固定资产 / 其他长期资产
损失 /（收益）(Gains)/losses on disposal of fixed assets and other long-term assets(5,184)175,625公允价值变动净收益Gain from changes in fair value投资收益汇兑损失递延所得税款Investment incomeForeign exchange lossesChanges in deferred tax assets/liabilities(125,940,200)(65,188,093)(263,834,118)(211,934,008)252,194,10082,794,5687,695,72512,277,873经营性应收项目的（增加）/ 减少(Increase)/decrease in operating receivables(4,372,277,088)(6,219,272,649)经营性应付项目的增加 /（减少）Increase/(decrease) in operating payables经营活动产生的现金流量净额Net cash flows from operating activities7,569,832,0537,257,846,3623,385,331,668994,656,0322、现金及现金等价物净变动情况：2. Net change in cash and cash equivalents:现金的年末余额Cash on hand at end of year减：现金的年初余额Less: Cash on hand at beginning of year加：现金等价物的年末余额Add: Cash equivalents at end of year减：现金等价物的年初余额Less: Cash equivalents at beginning of year现金及现金等价物净增加额Net increase in cash and cash equivalents13,235,12915,195,50415,195,50421,540,93614,313,497,80210,424,249,66310,424,249,6638,578,300,3773,887,287,7641,839,603,854UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|12138. 现金及现金等价物(38) Cash and cash equivalent现金现金等价物：CashCash equivalents:原期限在三个月以内的With original maturity less than three months31-12-201731-12-201613,235,12915,195,504- 存放同业款项- 拆出资金-Due from banks5,025,106,6294,183,038,043-Placements with banks and other financial institutions2,748,165,9702,996,451,871- 买入返售金融资产-Reverse repurchase financial assets债券及同业存单投资
（从购买日起三个月内到期）
存放中央银行其他款项Bond and negotiable certificate of deposit investments 
(tenor within three months from purchase date)
 Other deposits with the Central Bank小计合计Sub-totalTotal1,344,195,000536,900,0003,363,108,5121,196,168,8021,832,921,6911,511,690,94714,313,497,802 10,424,249,66314,326,732,93110,439,445,16739. 股份支付                                                                             (39) Share-based compensation plans本公司的股份支付计划包括限制性股票激励计划和股票增值权激励
计划。相关计划涉及的股份均系大华银行的股份。于 2017 年 12 月
31 日发行在外的限制性股票激励计划的股份期权为 190,005 份，行
权价格为零元新币，剩余合同期限范围为 1 至 3 年；于 2017 年 12 月
31 日可行权的股票增值权为 31,113 份，剩余合同期限为 3 年。Share-based compensation plans of the Bank comprise the 
Restricted Share Plan and the Share Appreciation Rights Plan. 
All shares involved are the shares of UOB. As at 31 December 
2017, the number of outstanding grants of Restricted Shares 
was 190,005, with an exercise price of zero Singapore dollar 
and the remaining contractual period of 1~3 years. As at 31 
December 2017, the number of outstanding grants of Share 
Appreciation Rights was 31,113 and the remaining contractual 
period was 3 years.122 大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告|七、分部报告7. Segment Information本公司根据内部组织结构、管理要求及内部报告制度确定了机构银
行业务分部、零售银行业务分部、环球金融业务分部及其他业务及
未分配项目共 4 个报告分部。每个报告分部为单独的业务分部，提
供不同的产品和劳务。本公司管理层将会定期审阅不同分部的财务
信息以决定向其配置资源、评价业绩。本公司报告分部的主要业务如下：机构银行分部
向各类企业提供包括贷款、贸易融资、存款服务、资金管理、外汇
买卖服务等金融服务。零售银行分部
向个人客户提供包括个人贷款、存款服务、银行卡服务、个人理财
服务和汇款等服务。环球金融分部
包括于银行间市场进行与资金业务相关的同业拆借交易、回购交易、
债务工具投资，以及外汇及贵金属产品、利率衍生产品的交易。其他业务及未分配项目分部
指不能直接归属上述某个分部或未能合理分配的资产、负债、收入
及支出。为了评价各个分部的业绩及向其配置资源，本公司管理层会定期审
阅归属于各分部资产、负债、收入、费用及经营成果，这些信息的
编制基础如下： 
 
分部资产主要包括归属于各分部的各项金融资产、有形资产、无形
资产和其他长期资产。分部负债包括归属于各分部的各项金融负债，
包括各项存款、拆入资金、各项应付款等。
 
分部经营成果是指各个分部产生的收入 ( 包括对外交易收入及分部
间的交易收入 )，扣除各个分部发生的直接费用（包括归属于各分
部的资产发生的折旧和摊销）、根据受益原则被分摊到的间接费用
以及资产减值损失。分部之间收入的转移定价按照与其他对外交易
相似的条款计算。The Bank is organised into four different operating segments, 
namely wholesale banking, retail banking, global markets, 
and others and unallocated based on internal organisational 
structure, management requirement and internal reporting 
system.  Every  reporting  segment,  which  is  individual 
business segent, provides different products and services. 
Management periodically reviews the financial information 
of  the  segments  to  determine  resource  allocation  and 
performance assessment.The main businesses of the segments are as follows:Wholesale Banking
The  wholesale  banking  segment  provides  products  and 
services such as corporate loans, trade financing, deposit-
taking  activities,  fund  management,  foreign  exchange 
services, etc.Retail Banking
The retail banking segment provides products and services 
such  as retail  loans, deposit-taking activities, bank cards, 
wealth management and remittance services, etc.Global Markets (GM)
The GM segment is responsible for conducting inter-bank 
placements, repurchase and reverse repurchase transactions 
and bond investments in the inter-bank market, and dealing 
foreign exchanges, interest rate and precious metal related 
derivatives, etc.Others and unallocated
This  segment  represents  the  assets,  liabilities,  income 
and expenses that are not directly attributable or cannot 
be  allocated  on  a  reasonable  basis  to  any  of  the  above 
segments.In  order  to  assess  the  performance  of  the  segments  and 
allocate resources, management will periodically review the 
assets,  liabilities,  income,  expenses  and  operating  results 
of the segments, and such information is prepared on the 
following basis:Segment  assets  mainly  include  financial  assets,  tangible 
assets, intangible assets and other long-term assets which are 
attributable to the segments, while segment liabilities mainly 
include deposits, borrowings and other payables which are 
attributable to the segments.Segment  operating  results  refer  to  income  generated 
by  each  segment  (including  external  and  inter-segment 
income),  deducted  by  direct  cost  (including  depreciation 
and amortisation pertaining to the assets allocated to the 
segments), indirect cost allocated based on occupation of 
resources and asset impairment losses. Transactions between 
segments are priced at similar terms as external transactions.UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|1231. 分部业绩、资产及负债(1) Segment profit and loss, assets and liabilities2017机构银行业务 零售银行业务 环球金融业务Wholesale 
BankingRetail  
BankingGM其他业务及
未分配项目
Others and 
unallocated合计Total一、营业收入1. Operating income693,301,450118,280,172233,276,712127,580,9131,172,439,247利息净收入Net interest income505,428,27886,272,23191,307,389122,796,062805,803,960其中：对外利息净收入 Of which: External interest income522,989,696213,816,18767,999,063999,014805,803,960分部间利息净收入                 Internal interest income(17,561,418)(127,543,956)23,308,326121,797,048-手续费及佣金净收入 Net fee and commission income117,352,91828,009,727(29,163,734)(1,222,629)114,976,282其他净收入Other net income70,520,2543,998,214171,133,0576,007,480251,659,005二、营业支出2. Operating expenses(361,734,558)(232,360,029)(80,199,960)(344,636,110)(1,018,930,657)其中：资产减值准备Of which: Impairment losses(31,656,331)(5,277,868)(3,574,574)(93,669,714)(134,178,487)三、净营业外收支3. Net non-operating income/(expenses)144,9746,948259,641(10,220,490)(9,808,927)四、税前利润4. Profit before tax331,711,866(114,072,909)153,336,393(227,275,687)143,699,663五、折旧与摊销费用5. Depreciation and amortisation5,714,76111,150,3362,231,94128,386,91747,483,955六、资本支出6. Capital expenditure4,692,64610,160,222698,61644,604,24260,155,72631-12-2017七、资产总额八、负债总额7. Total assets8. Total liabilities28,342,501,5096,666,248,616 28,256,184,552234,121,774 63,499,056,45127,782,770,0042,513,617,797 25,985,240,309423,910,358 56,705,538,468124 大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告|2016机构银行业务 零售银行业务 环球金融业务Wholesale 
BankingRetail  
BankingGM其他业务及
未分配项目
Others and 
unallocated合计Total一、营业收入1. Operating income669,325,597108,756,16924,183,706141,138,280943,403,752利息净收入Net interest income458,490,24985,659,757(38,556,889)141,648,601647,241,718其中：对外利息净收入 Of which: External interest income302,107,856184,624,438159,434,4261,074,998647,241,718分部间利息净收入                   Internal interest income156,382,393(98,964,681)(197,991,315)140,573,603-手续费及佣金净收入Net fee and commission income142,097,21618,276,246(23,911,144)(1,122,760)135,339,558其他净收入Other net income68,738,1324,820,16686,651,739612,439160,822,476二、营业支出2. Operating expenses(426,852,882)(241,560,232)(66,211,526)(159,744,084)(894,368,724)其中：资产减值准备Of which: Impairment losses(95,254,096)(6,377,588)-51,927,954(49,703,730)三、净营业外收支3. Net non-operating income/(expenses)(13)(188,448)10,6497,959,7067,781,894四、税前利润4. Profit before tax242,472,702(132,992,511)(42,017,171)(10,646,098)56,816,922五、折旧与摊销费用5. Depreciation and amortisation2,753,0568,170,0801,637,59532,428,68244,989,413六、资本支出6. Capital expenditure23,345,5206,468,6002,210,69296,517,775128,542,587七、资产总额八、负债总额2. 其他信息7. Total assets8. Total liabilities24,709,284,3826,271,140,79221,108,905,887297,080,77552,386,411,83624,487,222,520 2,886,203,56217,955,480,855395,842,732 45,724,749,66931-12-2016(2) Other information(1) 地理信息
对外营业收入是按照客户所在地为基础分配至相应的国家或地区，
本公司按不同地区列示的有关取得的对外营业收入 /（支出）的信
息如下：(1) External operation income by geography
External  operation  income  is  distributed  to  respective 
countries  and  regions  by  their  geography  locations.  The 
external  operation  income/(expense)  which  divided  by 
different geography locations is shown as follows:境内境外合计DomesticOverseasTotal于资产负债表日，本公司没有中国境外的非流动资产。
 
(2) 主要客户信息   
本公司来源于年末十大贷款客户的利息收入为人民币 1.12 亿元（2016
年度：人民币 1.26 亿元），占本公司贷款利息收入的 10%（2016 年度：
12%）。对外营业收入 /（支出）External operation income/(expense)201720161,324,895,515(152,456,268)1,172,439,247765,198,097178,205,655943,403,752The Bank does not have any non-current asset held outside 
Mainland China as at the balance sheet date.(2) Major customers information
Interest income of the Bank amounting to RMB112 million 
comes from  top 10 largest loan customers (2016: RMB126 
million), which contributed 10 per cent of the total interest 
income for the year (2016: 12 per cent).UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|125八、承诺及或有负债1. 财务承诺资本性支出承诺8. Commitments and contingent liabilities(1) CommitmentsCapital commitments已批准但未签约已签约但未拨付合计Approved but not contractedContracted but not provided forTotal31-12-2017179,3061,767,2661,946,57231-12-20161,317,5023,565,6254,883,127经营性租赁承诺
本公司作为承租方与出租方签订了房屋和设备的不可撤销经营性
租赁合同。于各资产负债表日，本公司须就以下期间缴付的最低
租金为：Operating lease commitments
The  Bank  leases  certain  premises  under  operating  lease 
arrangements. The total future minimum payments in respect 
of non-cancellable operating leases at the balance sheet date 
are as follows:31-12-2017102,532,66692,536,37220,167,8722,049,171217,286,08131-12-201696,752,29881,197,42471,170,13613,084,682262,204,540(2) Credit commitments31-12-201731-12-2016525,999,273295,500,154331,306,732248,326,6634,784,025,9904,544,298,63980,657,398153,306,3585,839,489,1732,406,556,9372,406,556,9378,246,046,1102,755,214,80555,002,005124,569,7835,303,503,8222,387,968,4752,387,968,4757,691,472,2972,576,033,768一年以内（含一年）Within 1 year一年以上二年以内（含二年）1 to 2 years二年以上三年以内（含三年）2 to 3 years三年以上合计2. 信贷承诺财务担保合同：银行承兑汇票保函款项备用信用证开出即期信用证开出远期信用证小计After 3 yearsTotalFinancial guarantee contracts:Banker’s acceptanceLetter of guaranteeStandby letter of creditLetter of credit, at sightLetter of credit, usanceSub-total不可撤销的贷款承诺：Irrevocable loan commitments with original maturity of:原到期日在 1 年或以上More than one year小计合计Sub-totalTotal信贷承诺的信贷风险加权金额Weighted credit risk of credit commitments126 大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告|财务担保合同具有担保性质，一旦客户未按其与受益人签订的合同偿
还债务或履行约定义务时，银行需履行担保责任。贷款承诺是指本公司作出的在未来为客户提供约定数额贷款的承诺。
贷款承诺一般附有有效期或终止条款，可能在到期前无需履行，故合
同约定的贷款承诺总金额并不一定代表未来的预期现金流出。3. 受托业务委托资金委托贷款委托理财资金委托理财资产Entrusted depositsEntrusted loansEntrusted fundEntrusted asset委托资金是指存款者存于本公司的款项，仅用于向存款者指定的第三
方发放贷款之用。贷款相关的信贷风险由资金委托人承担。委托理财业务是指本公司按照与客户事先约定的投资计划和方式，以
客户支付的本金进行投资和资产管理，投资收益由本公司代为收取，
根据约定条件和实际投资收益向客户支付收益的业务。4. 或有负债据管理层意见，于 2017 年底，本公司除附注八、2 信贷承诺披露的或
有负债外，并无其他或有负债。Financial guarantee contracts, with the nature of guarantee, 
require  the  Bank  to  be  obliged  to  fulfil  the  customers’ 
responsibility as guarantor in case that the customers fail to 
repay the contracted amount or fail to fulfil their obligations.Loan commitments represent the commitment made by the 
Bank to its customer to grant a certain amount of loan in the 
future. Loan commitments are normally attached with an 
effective date or termination clause, and it is possible that 
the Bank may not need to fulfil such commitment on the 
maturity date. Hence, the amount of the loan commitments 
does  not  necessarily  represent  the  future  expected  cash 
outflow.
(3) Entrusted Business31-12-20172,403,601,3042,403,601,30431-12-20171,394,916,2171,394,916,21731-12-20161,808,697,9871,808,697,98731-12-2016975,216,615975,216,615Entrusted deposits represent funds from depositors, which 
depositors have instructed the Bank to grant loans to third 
parties designated by them. The credit risk remains with the 
depositors.Entrusted wealth management business is the investment 
product  according  to  the  agreed  investing  plan  with  the 
clients. The investment principal is paid by the customers, 
which  would  be  managed  by  the  Bank.  The  Bank  would 
receive the investment profit on behalf of the customers 
and pay the profit to the customers based on the agreed 
conditions.(4) Contingent liabilitiesAs at 31 December 2017, according to the management there 
was no other contingent liabilities except for those that have 
been disclosed in Note 8.2.九、资本管理9. Capital Management本公司采用足够能够防范本公司经营业务的固有风险的资本管理办
法，并且对于资本的管理符合监管当局的要求。本公司资本管理的目
标除了符合监管当局的要求之外，还必须保持能够保障经营的资本充
足率和使股东权益最大化。视乎经济环境的变化和面临的风险特征，
本公司将积极调整资本结构。The Bank has adopted a strong capital management method 
to mitigate the inherent risk in the business operation and 
complied with the requirements of regulatory authorities 
on capital management. The Bank also targets to maintain 
sufficient  capital  adequacy  ratio  for  operations  and 
optimising  shareholders’  value.  The  Bank  may  adjust  its 
capital  structure  actively  to  adapt  with  the  change  of 
economic environment and related risk characteristics.UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|127本公司按照《商业银行资本管理办法（试行）》的规定，进行资本充
足率信息披露工作并持续完善信息披露内容。银监会要求商业银行核
心一级资本充足率不得低于 5%，一级资本充足率不得低于 6%，资本
充足率不得低于 8%。此外按照中国银监会关于实施《商业银行资本
管理办法（试行）》过渡期安排相关事项的通知的规定，商业银行在
2018 年底前应达到规定的 2.5% 的储备资本要求。本公司财务部负责对资本项目进行管理。核心一级资本包括实收资本、
资本公积可计入部分、其他综合收益可计入部分、盈余公积、一般风
险准备和未分配利润；本公司无其他一级资本；二级资本主要包括超
额贷款减值准备。本公司按照《商业银行资本管理办法（试行）》的规定，计算的资本
充足率情况如下：The  Bank  calculates  and  discloses  capital  adequacy  ratio 
according to Regulations Governing Capital of Commercial Banks 
(Provisional).  CBRC  requires  that  a  commercial  bank’s  core 
tier-one capital adequacy ratio, tier-one capital adequacy 
ratio and capital adequacy ratio should not be lower than 
five per cent, six per cent, and eight per cent respectively. 
In  addition,  according  to  the  transitional  arrangement  of 
implementing the Regulations Governing Capital of Commercial 
Banks (Provisional), a commercial bank’s reserve capital ratio 
should reach 2.5 per cent by the end of 2018.The  Finance  Department  is  responsible  for  managing 
the  capital  of  the  Bank.  Core  tier-one  capital  includes 
paid-up  capital,  qualified  capital  reserve,  qualified  other 
comprehensive income, surplus reserves, general reserves 
and retained earnings. The Bank has no other tier-one capital. 
Tier-two capital mainly includes surplus provision for loan 
impairment.The  capital  adequacy  ratios  calculated  by  the  Bank  in 
accordance with Regulations Governing Capital of Commercial 
Banks (Provisional) are as follows:核心一级资本实收资本Core tier-one capitalPaid-up capital资本公积可计入部分Qualified capital reserve其他综合收益可计入部分Qualified other comprehensive income盈余公积一般风险准备未分配利润Surplus reservesGeneral reservesRetained earnings核心一级资本扣除项目Core tier-one capital deductions其他无形资产Other intangible assets依赖未来盈利的由经营亏损
引起的净递延税资产Deferred tax assets arising from tax losses that rely on future 
profitability核心一级资本净额Net core tier-one capital一级资本净额二级资本Net tier-one capitalTier-two capital超额贷款减值准备Surplus provision for loan impairment总资本净额风险加权资产Net capitalRisk-weighted assets其中：信用风险加权资产Of which: Credit risk-weighted assets市场风险加权资产Market risk-weighted assets操作风险加权资产Operational risk- weighted assets核心一级资本充足率Core tier-one capital adequacy ratio一级资本充足率资本充足率Tier-one capital adequacy ratioCapital adequacy ratio128 大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告|31-12-20176,793,517,98331-12-20166,661,662,1675,500,000,0005,500,000,0009,975,150(7,477,010)100,026,507708,458,438482,534,898137,768,137118,548,68419,219,4536,655,749,8466,655,749,846342,507,787342,507,7876,998,257,63340,457,110,65033,674,338,0914,833,322,3091,949,450,25016.5%16.5%17.3%7,190,414(544,152)86,426,113588,421,509480,168,283123,123,586100,945,39922,178,1876,538,538,5816,538,538,581202,234,954202,234,9546,740,773,53535,967,238,23330,068,630,2484,068,195,4231,830,412,56218.2%18.2%18.7%本公司的资本充足率及相关数据是以按中国会计准则编制的法定财务
报表为基础进行计算的。本年度，本公司遵守了监管部门规定的资本
要求。此外，本公司根据中国银监会颁布的《商业银行杠杆率管理办法》（银
监会令 2011 年第 3 号）计算并披露杠杆率信息。截止 2017 年 12 月 31 日，
本公司的杠杆率为 8.5%，符合最低 4% 的法规要求，相关信息如下：核心一级资本Core tier-one capital减：核心一级资本扣除项目Less: Core tier-one capital deductions核心一级资本净额Net core tier-one capitalThe  capital  adequacy  ratios  and  related  components  of 
the  Bank  are  calculated  based  on  the  statutory  financial 
statements  prepared  under  the  Chinese  Accounting 
Standards for Business Enterprises. During the period, the 
Bank has complied with the capital requirements imposed by 
the regulator.In addition, the Bank calculates and discloses leverage ratio 
according to Regulations Governing Leverage Ratio of Commercial 
Banks (CBRC Ordinance [2011] No. 3). As at 31 December 2017, 
the Bank’s leverage ratio was 8.5 per cent which was higher 
than the minimum regulatory requirement of four per cent. 
The relevant information is as follows:31-12-20176,793,517,983(137,768,137)6,655,749,84631-12-20166,661,662,167(123,123,586)6,538,538,581调整后表内资产余额Adjusted on balance sheet items56,440,924,82449,956,473,200调整后表外项目余额Adjusted off balance sheet items衍生产品资产余额Balance of derivatives证券融资交易资产余额Balance of assets in securities financing transactions合计杠杆率TotalLeverage ratio十、金融风险管理1. 信用风险1.1 信用风险管理
信用风险是债务人或交易对手违约的风险，主要指银行的借款人或交
易对手不能按事先达成的协议履行其义务的潜在可能性。本公司的信
用风险主要来自于发放贷款和垫款，表外项目的信用风险主要来自于
开出信用证、各项担保款项和贷款承诺。信用风险的集中程度：当一定数量的客户在进行相同的经营活动时，
或处于相同的地理位置上或其行业具有相似的经济特性使其履行合约
的能力会受到同一经济变化的影响。信用风险的集中程度反映了银行
业绩对某一特定行业或地理位置的敏感程度。本公司严格的授信前审查制度、授权审批制度和贷后的跟踪和上报机
制有效地降低和防范了信用风险。本公司定期对客户的经营状况进行
检查，对贷款质量进行分析并提取充足的贷款损失准备金。8,782,711,93011,851,321,3011,344,195,00078,419,153,0558.5%8,162,762,1154,682,925,356536,900,00063,339,060,67110.3%10.Financial Risk Management(1) Credit risk(1.1) Credit risk management
Credit  risk is  the  risk  of loss  arising  from  a  borrower’s  or 
counterparty’s inability to meet its obligations as and when 
they fall due. The Bank’s credit risk exposure mainly arises from 
loans and advances to customers. Credit risk of off balance 
sheet items mainly arises from the letters of credit/guarantees 
issued as well as loan commitments.Credit  risk concentration refers to the  situation whereby 
there is a concentration of customers in the same business 
activities,  geographical  location,  or  industry  sector  with 
similar economic characteristics such that their repayment 
ability would be affected by the same economic fluctuations. 
Credit risk concentration reflects the sensitivity of the Bank’s 
performance to such customer concentration.The Bank establishes a comprehensive set of policies and 
procedures  which  effectively  mitigate  and  control  credit 
risk. The procedures cover credit evaluation, credit approval, 
credit monitoring as well as reporting.  The Bank reviews the 
borrowers’  business  operations  periodically,  analyses  the 
quality of credit portfolio and ensures adequacy of loan loss 
provisions.UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|129财务担保及贷款承诺产生的风险在实质上与贷款和垫款的风险相似。
因此，该类交易的申请、贷后管理以及抵质押担保要求等需要与贷款
和垫款业务相同。1.2 不考虑任何担保物及其他信用增级措施的最大信用风险敞口
于资产负债表日，不考虑任何担保物及其他信用增级措施的最大信用
风险敞口详情如下：存放中央银行款项Balances with the Central BankDue from banksThe  risk  from  financial  guarantee  and  loan  commitments 
is similar with that from loans and advances to customers. 
Hence, the Bank adopts the same policies and procedures 
for managing credit contingencies which cover application, 
follow-up monitoring and collateral requirements, etc.
 
(1.2) Maximum credit risk exposure without consideration of 
any collateral and credit risk mitigation
As at the balance sheet date, the maximum credit risk exposure 
of the Bank without taking into consideration of collateral and 
credit risk mitigation is set out below:31-12-201731-12-20167,156,303,1436,859,536,9415,022,549,8344,281,972,740Placements with banks and other financial institutions9,527,005,2498,952,621,562Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss2,486,366,8621,115,977,944存放同业款项拆出资金以公允价值计量且其变动 
计入当期损益的金融资产衍生金融资产买入返售金融资产发放贷款和垫款可供出售金融资产其他金融资产合计Derivative financial assetsReverse repurchase financial assetsLoans and advances to customersAvailable-for-sale financial assetsOther financial assetsTotal信贷承诺信用风险敞口（附注八、2） Credit commitments (Note 8.2)最大信用风险敞口Maximum credit risk exposure1.3 风险集中度
如交易对手集中于某一行业或地区，或共同具备某些经济特性，其信
用风险通常会相应提高。此外，不同行业和地区的经济发展均有其独
特的特点，因此不同的行业和地区的信用风险亦不相同。本公司主要为境内客户提供贷款及财务担保合同。本公司发放贷款和
垫款的行业集中度详情，请参看附注六、8。1.4 担保物
本公司根据交易对手的信用风险评估决定所需的担保物金额及类型。
本公司对接受担保物建立了相关的指南，包括对担保物评估频度作了
明确的要求。130 大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告|5,576,168,4272,401,319,4151,344,195,000536,900,00027,136,596,78723,887,216,0594,369,225,2733,757,637,920544,512,868241,572,92663,162,923,44352,034,755,5078,246,046,1107,691,472,29771,408,969,55359,726,227,804(1.3) Risk concentration
The concentration of borrowers/counterparties in the same 
industry  sector,  geographical  location  or  having  similar 
economic characteristics would tend to pose higher credit 
risk to the Bank. On the other hand, the level of credit risk 
may be varied from each industry or geographical location in 
view of their unique economic development characteristics.The  Bank  mainly  provides  loans  and  commitments/
guarantees  to  domestic  customers.  Analysis  on  industry 
sector concentration for the Bank’s loans and advances can 
be found at Note 6.8.(1.4) Collateral
The  amount  and  type  of  the  collateral  required  would 
depend on the credit risk of the borrowers/counterparties 
as assessed by the Bank. The Bank has established a guideline 
on  taking  collateral  including  the  frequency  of  collateral 
valuation.抵押物主要有以下几种类型 :
－   对于商业贷款，担保物主要为现金及存款、银行担保、房地产或机械设备；－  对于个人贷款，担保物为居民住宅。管理层要求业务相关部门监测担保物的市场价值并根据相关协议要求
追加抵押物，并在进行损失准备的充足性审查时充分考虑担保物的市
价变化。1.5 信用质量
本公司各项金融资产（未扣除减值准备）的信用质量分析如下：31-12-2017The main types of collateral include:
-    For corporate and commercial loans, main collaterals taken 
include  cash  deposits,  bank  guarantee,  properties  and 
machinery; and-   For personal loans, collateral taken are mainly residentialproperties.The management requires relevant Business Units to monitor 
the market value of the collaterals and follow up with the 
borrowers/counterparties to top up collaterals in accordance 
with the relevant provisions of the loan agreement.  The 
change in market value of the collateral would also be taken 
into consideration when reviewing the adequacy of loan loss 
provisions.(1.5) Credit quality 
The credit quality of financial assets of the Bank (excluding 
provisions) is analysed as follows:既未逾期也未减值  已逾期但未减值已减值Neither overdue nor 
impairedOverdue but not 
impairedImpaired合计Total现金及存放中央银行款项Cash and deposit with the central bank存放同业款项Due from banks拆出资金以公允价值计量且其变动计入 
当期损益的金融资产Placements with banks and other financial 
institutions
Financial assets at fair value through profit 
or loss买入返售金融资产Reverse repurchase financial assets7,169,538,2725,025,106,6299,530,563,2492,486,366,8621,344,195,000-------7,169,538,2725,025,106,629-9,530,563,249--2,486,366,8621,344,195,000发放贷款和垫款Loans and advances to customers27,454,970,95818,018,820211,867,730 27,684,857,508可供出售金融资产Available-for-sale financial assets其他金融资产Other financial assets4,369,225,273544,512,868----4,369,225,273544,512,868合计Total57,924,479,11118,018,820211,867,73058,154,365,66131-12-2016既未逾期也未减值  已逾期但未减值已减值Neither overdue nor 
impairedOverdue but not 
impairedImpaired合计Total现金及存放中央银行款项Cash and deposit with the central bank存放同业款项Due from banks拆出资金以公允价值计量且其变动计入 
当期损益的金融资产Placements with banks and other financial 
institutions
Financial assets at fair value through profit 
or loss买入返售金融资产Reverse repurchase financial assets6,874,732,4454,283,038,0438,955,157,1521,115,977,944536,900,0006,874,732,4454,283,038,0438,955,157,1521,115,977,944536,900,000--------发放贷款和垫款Loans and advances to customers24,085,480,413369,707315,473,01324,401,323,133可供出售金融资产Available-for-sale financial assets其他金融资产合计Other financial assetsTotal3,757,637,920240,167,025---3,757,637,9201,405,901241,572,92649,849,090,942369,707316,878,91450,166,339,563UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|131既未逾期也未减值的发放贷款及垫款
下表按担保方式列示于资产负债表日既未逾期也未减值的贷款：Loans and advances that are neither overdue nor impaired
The  composition  of  loans  that  are  neither  overdue  nor 
impaired by collateral arrangement as at the balance sheet 
date is as follows:信用贷款保证贷款抵押贷款质押贷款合计Unsecured loansLoans secured by guaranteesLoans secured by mortgageLoans secured by pledgesTotal31-12-20174,372,966,6354,153,507,09515,022,419,9013,906,077,32727,454,970,95831-12-20165,040,959,5022,568,218,05613,234,360,4693,241,942,38624,085,480,413已逾期但未减值的发放贷款及垫款
于资产负债表日，已逾期但未减值的发放贷款及垫款账龄分析如下：Loans and advances that are overdue but not impaired
Ageing analysis of loans that are overdue but not impaired as 
at the balance sheet date is as follows:1 个月以内 1 个月到 2 个月 2 个月到 3 个月3 个月以上合计 所持有担保物公允价值Within 1 month1 to 2 months2 to 3 months More than 3 monthsTotalFair value of collaterals31-12-2017贷款及垫款Loans and advances 
to customers17,931,83786,983--18,018,820350,415,0001 个月以内 1 个月到 2 个月 2 个月到 3 个月3 个月以上合计 所持有担保物公允价值Within 1 month1 to 2 months2 to 3 months More than 3 monthsTotalFair value of collaterals31-12-2016贷款及垫款Loans and advances 
to customers369,707---369,707286,889,299已减值的发放贷款及垫款
如果有客观证据表明发放贷款及垫款在初始确认后有一项或多项负
面情况发生，且该情况对贷款预计未来现金流量有影响且该影响能
可靠估计，则该发放贷款及垫款被认为是已减值贷款。这些贷款会
被评定为“次级”、“可疑”或“损失”类。于资产负债表日，本公司持有的减值贷款的账面价值及涵盖减值贷
款的担保物的公允价值列示如下：Impaired loans and advances
Where there are objective evidences that a single or multiple 
negative events have occurred after the initial recognition of 
the loans and the impact from the events on the expected 
future  cash  flows  can  be  estimated  reliably,  the  relevant 
loans should be recognised as impaired loans. These loans 
are classified as “Substandard”, “Doubtful” or “Loss”.As at the balance sheet date, the carry amount of impaired 
loans and the fair value of collateral of impaired loans held 
by the Bank are as follows:31-12-201731-12-2016减值贷款- 次级- 可疑- 损失合计Impaired loans- Substandard- Doubtful- LossTotal减值贷款的担保物The collateral value of impaired loans132 大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告|136,746,83975,120,891-211,867,730256,264,404162,628,13761,580,96291,263,914315,473,013294,860,960上述抵押物的公允价值为本公司根据目前抵押物处置经验和市场状
况对最新可得的外部评估价值进行调整的基础上确定。经重组的发放贷款及垫款
本公司为了最大可能地回收贷款及管理客户关系，设立了贷款重组
政策，即与客户重新商定合同条款。于资产负债表日，本公司并未发生此类业务。2. 流动性风险
本公司保持充足的流动性以保障银行日常运营的开展，满足存款的
提款和贷款的发放，投资新项目以及支付到期的借款。因此，流动
性管理的主旨在于应付银行确定的及不可确定的资金需求。本公司流动性风险管理是在完整的风险管理框架下进行的，包含经
由资产负债委员会和执行委员会批准的各项政策、控制流程、风险
限额。这些政策、控制流程及风险限额确保本公司在不同的市场环
境下有充足的资金以应对流动性需求。这些措施包括通过多样化资
金的来源及其期限将资金集中度降至最小，以及持有高流动性债券。本公司在流动性风险管理方面采取保守立场，持续的吸收核心存款，
严格遵守流动性风险额度，保留充足的流动资产等措施来防范可能
出现的资金短缺。本公司通过主动分散存款的来源，以保持成本效率的均衡，资金的
持续可获得以及资金来源的多样化。通过竞争性定价管理银行的核
心存款以及维护客户的信心。本公司通过预测银行现金流来度量和管理流动性风险，现金流的预
测是基于“正常业务情景”和“压力情景”来进行。本公司设置现
金流错配限额来控制银行流动性风险敞口的同时，还采用流动性早
期预警指标和警戒线以揭示可能出现的危机状况。本公司在建立的
流动性应急计划中运用一系列的预警指标揭示可能发生的流动性危
机。在该应急计划中，本公司通过设立危机上报流程及包括融资、
沟通等危机处理策略来减少流动性危机所带来的负面影响。The fair value of collateral that the Bank holds is determined 
from the latest external valuation with necessary adjustment 
made  after  considering  the  Bank’s  own  experience  in 
collateral disposal as well as the current market conditions.Restructured loans and advances
The Bank has formulated a set of loan restructuring policies 
to renegotiate the contractual terms with customers in order 
to maximise the recovery of impaired loans as well as to 
manage customer relationships.No  transactions  were  conducted  by  the  Bank  as  at  the 
balance sheet date.(2) Liquidity risk 
The  bank  maintains  sufficient  liquidity  to  fund  day-to-
day  operations,  to  meet  deposit  withdrawals  and  loan 
disbursements, to participate in new investments, and to 
repay borrowings. Hence, liquidity is managed in a manner 
to address both anticipated and unanticipated cash funding 
needs.Liquidity  risk  is  managed  in  accordance  with  a  complete 
framework of risk management, including-policies, controls 
and limits approved by the Asset and Liability Committee 
(ALCO). These policies, controls and limits are established 
to ensure that the bank to have sufficient funding to manage 
liquidity risk over a range of market conditions. These include 
minimising excessive funding concentrations by diversifying 
the  sources  and  terms  of  funding  as  well  as  maintaining 
a portfolio of debt securities with high quality and good 
liquidity.The bank takes a conservative stance in liquidity management 
by continuing to gather core deposits, strictly complying 
with liquidity limits and retaining adequate liquid assets to 
prevent any possible cash shortfall.The  bank  actively  dispersed  the  sources  of  deposits  to 
maintain a balance of cost efficiency, continued availability 
of funds and diversification of funding sources. Important 
factors  in  ensuring  liquidity  are  competitive  pricing, 
proactive management of the bank’s core deposits and the 
maintenance of customer confidence.Liquidity risk is measured and managed on projected cash 
flow basis. Cash flow projection is monitored under both 
business-as-usual and stress scenarios. Cash flow mismatch 
limits are established to limit the bank’s liquidity exposure. 
The  bank  has  also  employed  liquidity  early  warning 
indicators and trigger points to signal possible contingency 
situations.  Contingency  funding  plans  have  been  set  up 
to  identify  potential  liquidity  crises  by  using  a  series  of 
warning indicators. Crisis management processes and various 
strategies including funding and communication have been 
developed to minimise the negative impact of any liquidity 
crunch.UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|133计
合l
a
t
o
T限
期
无d
e
t
a
d
n
ue
v
o
b
a
 
s
r
a
e
y
 
5s
r
a
e
y
 
5
 
o
t
 
1r
a
e
y
 
1
 
o
t
 
s
h
t
n
o
m
 
3s
h
t
n
o
m
 
3
 
o
t
 
1h
t
n
o
m1
 
n
h
t
iiW/
e
u
d
r
e
v
Od
n
a
m
e
d
n
O7
1
0
2
-
2
1
-
1
3上
以
年5年5至1年1至
月
个3月
个3至1内
月
个1还
偿
时
即/期
逾:
s
w
ol
lo
f
 
s
a
 
s
i
 
7
1
0
2
 
r
e
b
m
e
c
e
D1
3
 
t
a
 
s
a
 
s
ei
t
i
l
ib
a
i
ld
n
a
 
s
t
e
s
s
a
 
l
a
i
c
n
a
ni
f
 
f
o
e
l
i
f
o
r
p
 
y
t
i
r
u
t
a
ms
’
k
n
a
Be
h
T：
下
如
析
分
日
期
到
的
债
负
融
金
及
产
资
融
金
的
司
公
本
，
日1
3月2
1年7
1
0
2于h
t
iwt
n
e
m
e
c
a
l
p
d
n
a
 
m
o
r
f
 
e
u
Dl
a
i
c
n
a
n
i
f
 
r
e
h
t
o
d
n
a
 
s
k
n
a
be
h
t
 
h
t
iw
 
s
t
i
s
o
p
e
d
d
n
a
 
h
s
a
Ck
n
a
B
 
l
a
r
t
n
e
Cs
n
o
i
t
u
t
i
t
s
ni项
款
行
银
央
中
放
存
及
金
现金
资
出
拆
及
业
同
放
存e
u
l
a
v
 
r
i
a
f
 
t
a
 
s
t
e
s
s
a
 
l
a
i
c
n
a
n
i
Fs
s
ol
 
r
o
 
t
i
f
o
r
p
h
g
u
o
r
h
t动
变
其
且
量
计
值
价
允
公
以产
资
融
金
的
益
损
期
当
入
计s
t
e
s
s
a
 
l
a
i
c
n
a
n
i
f
 
e
v
i
t
a
v
i
r
e
D产
资
融
金
生
衍l
a
i
c
n
a
n
i
f
 
e
s
a
h
c
r
u
p
e
r
 
e
s
r
e
v
e
Rs
t
e
s
s
a产
资
融
金
售
返
入
买:
s
t
e
s
s
a
 
l
a
i
c
n
a
n
i
F：
产
资
融
金s
r
e
m
o
t
s
u
c
 
o
t
 
s
e
c
n
a
v
d
a
 
d
n
a
 
s
n
a
o
L款
垫
和
款
贷
放
发134 大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告|,2
7
2
8
3
5
9
6
1
,
7,2
5
4
,
1
8
3
3
2
3
5,,,3
8
0
5
5
5
9
4
5
4
1,,,2
6
8
6
6
3
6
8
4
2,,,7
2
4
8
6
1
,
6
7
5
5,,0
0
0
5
9
1
,
4
4
3
,
1,7
8
7
6
9
5
6
3
1
,
7
2,,3
7
2
5
2
2
9
6
3
4,,,8
6
8
2
1
5
4
4
5,,2
7
5
8
5
1
,
6
7
1
,
3
6------,3
3
2
7
3
7
2
9,,5
8
6
8
1
1
,
6
1
4
5,----,0
4
5
9
5
2
9
2,-8
5
4
,
1
6
8
7
7
5,,5
8
8
8
4
8
0
3
3
,
1,4
8
7
,
1
8
3
4
3
3,,6
8
3
5
2
3
8
6
6
2,,,9
6
5
2
4
7
5
4
3
,
1,,0
0
0
7
9
6
8
2
2,,5
2
0
4
5
1
,
6
8
9
4,,6
9
2
5
4
8
9
8
2
2,,,5
7
6
6
4
0
7
9
8
5,,,2
7
8
7
9
5
3
4
8
7,,,4
4
4
0
6
4
7
2
2
8,,,9
6
0
8
2
7
7
0
4
3,,,5
4
9
4
7
6
8
0
6
,
1,---,0
0
0
5
9
1
,
4
4
3
,
19
6
2
,
1
8
2
2
3
6
5,,,9
7
9
6
9
3
8
4
5,,8
8
6
8
1
7
7
2
2
,
1,---,0
6
2
0
4
8
9
1
3
,
1,,2
8
7
8
8
0
2
5
1,-,1
6
0
3
2
8
0
7
4,,7
6
0
5
3
8
7
5
3,7
1
1
,
4
9
9
0
9
2,,5
7
5
4
0
5
6
2
7,计
合l
a
t
o
T限
期
无d
e
t
a
d
n
ue
v
o
b
a
 
s
r
a
e
y
 
5s
r
a
e
y
 
5
 
o
t
 
1r
a
e
y
 
1
 
o
t
 
s
h
t
n
o
m
 
3s
h
t
n
o
m
 
3
 
o
t
 
1h
t
n
o
m1
 
n
h
t
iiW/
e
u
d
r
e
v
O7
1
0
2
-
2
1
-
1
3上
以
年5年5至1年1至
月
个3月
个3至1内
月
个1还
偿
时
即/期
逾d
n
a
m
e
d
n
O:
s
e
i
t
i
l
ib
a
i
l
 
l
a
i
c
n
a
n
i
F：
债
负
融
金,3
6
3
4
7
9
8
4
1
,
0
2,,5
1
8
9
1
8
9
5
6
5,,,5
1
2
2
1
8
2
7
2
0
3,,6
4
1
,
7
0
1
,
3
8
4,9
3
5
3
1
7
4
6
5
6
5,,---,5
4
7
6
8
7
8
2,,5
4
7
6
8
7
8
2,-----,9
9
4
6
1
7
5
7
3,1
2
6
,
1
2
7
3
2
3,,0
6
0
0
0
1
,
5
9
5,5
5
9
0
2
3
6
3
9
,
1
1,5
6
1
,
9
7
6
9
7
6
2,,,3
4
7
3
4
7
5
7
1
,
5,7
7
0
,
1
0
6
7
9
4
,
1,,7
3
7
7
8
4
0
6,1
5
1
,
9
2
3
3
4
2,,7
1
9
5
2
0
5
5
3
,
1,,3
5
0
3
9
1
,
7
5
3
2
2,,2
8
7
3
6
8
7
9
4
7,,,1
3
3
5
3
0
4
2
1,,9
0
2
6
4
3
7
7
1
,
5,,0
6
3
6
2
7
4
7
9
,
1
1,,3
0
5
0
6
3
0
3
2
2,,,2
5
9
7
1
8
8
5
1
,
1,2
0
2
,
1
2
3
7
9
4
3,,,9
0
7
9
6
0
9
2,,6
6
3
9
6
5
5
1
9
6,,,8
1
2
5
8
1
,
6
2,2
6
9
0
8
1
,
5
0
5
3
1,,8
9
0
2
1
4
3
3
9
3
1,,0
1
1
,
6
4
0
6
4
2
8,,,4
2
8
5
4
9
7
9,6
4
2
,
1
8
5
7,,1
9
0
3
9
6
7
3
6
2,,,2
1
8
2
5
9
7
0
4
3,,3
3
1
,
3
4
1
,
1
8
8
,
1,6
1
2
2
6
0
6
0
2,,8
8
7
7
6
6
7,,3
3
0
5
4
4
,
1
1
6
6,0
4
9
,
1
3
3
7
8
3
5,,,5
1
2
6
0
3
6
2
9
5,,,8
3
8
8
6
7
6
4
3
7,,)
7
0
1
,
5
8
1
,
9
7
6
3
(,),0
7
3
5
1
3
9
6
8
,
1
(,,1
8
5
0
3
9
,
1
3
2
5,,)
4
6
0
2
9
3
2
3
7
,
1
1
(,s
e
i
t
i
l
ib
a
i
l
 
l
a
i
c
n
a
n
i
f
 
r
e
h
t
Os
e
i
t
i
l
ib
a
i
l
 
l
a
i
c
n
a
n
i
f
 
l
a
t
o
Ts
t
i
s
o
p
e
d
 
r
e
m
o
t
s
u
Cs
t
n
e
mt
im
m
o
Cy
t
i
d
u
qii
l
 
t
e
N金
资
入
拆
及
放
存
业
同债
负
融
金
生
衍款
存
收
吸债
负
融
金
他
其计
合
债
负
融
金额
净
性
动
流项
事
诺
承
外
表,8
1
9
5
4
0
2
0
4,s
k
n
a
b
m
o
r
f
 
t
n
e
m
e
c
a
l
p
d
n
a
 
o
t
 
e
u
Ds
n
o
i
t
u
t
i
t
s
ni
 
l
a
i
c
n
a
n
i
f
 
r
e
h
t
o
d
n
a-s
e
i
t
i
l
ib
a
i
l
 
l
a
i
c
n
a
n
i
f
 
e
v
i
t
a
v
i
r
e
D---,9
9
0
8
1
1
,
5
9
2,5
1
2
6
0
3
6
2
9
5,,,5
5
7
4
9
7
,
1
0
7
8,,0
3
3
3
3
4
2
5
6
,
1,1
1
1
,
2
0
7
4
0
3
,
1,3
3
7
,
1
7
9
6
1
1
,
1,-s
t
e
s
s
a
 
l
a
i
c
n
a
n
i
f
 
e
l
a
s
-
r
o
f
-
e
l
b
a
l
i
a
v
A产
资
融
金
售
出
供
可,2
4
2
0
5
9
4
9,,3
9
9
8
0
7
8
6,,6
1
2
7
6
2
8
7
3,,7
1
4
6
8
5
2,,6
4
9
7
0
0
8
7
6
8
1,,,0
9
9
0
1
4
5
0
1
,
0
1,,7
4
9
9
9
4
7
4
1
,
2
1,,4
3
0
0
2
0
,
1
0
2
2,s
t
e
s
s
a
 
l
a
i
c
n
a
n
i
f
 
r
e
h
t
Os
t
e
s
s
a
 
l
a
i
c
n
a
n
i
f
 
l
a
t
o
T产
资
融
金
他
其计
合
产
资
融
金计
合l
a
t
o
T限
期
无d
e
t
a
d
n
ue
v
o
b
a
 
s
r
a
e
y
 
5s
r
a
e
y
 
5
 
o
t
 
1r
a
e
y
 
1
 
o
t
 
s
h
t
n
o
m
 
3s
h
t
n
o
m
 
3
 
o
t
 
1h
t
n
o
m1
 
n
h
t
iiW/
e
u
d
r
e
v
Od
n
a
m
e
d
n
O6
1
0
2
-
2
1
-
1
3上
以
年5年5至1年1至
月
个3月
个3至1内
月
个1还
偿
时
即/期
逾:
s
w
ol
lo
f
 
s
a
 
s
i6
1
0
2
 
r
e
b
m
e
c
e
D1
3
 
t
a
 
s
a
 
s
ei
t
i
l
ib
a
i
ld
n
a
 
s
t
e
s
s
a
 
l
a
i
c
n
a
ni
f
 
f
o
e
l
i
f
o
r
p
 
y
t
i
r
u
t
a
ms
’
k
n
a
Be
h
T：
下
如
析
分
日
期
到
的
债
负
融
金
及
产
资
融
金
的
司
公
本
，
日1
3月2
1年
6
1
0
2于,5
4
4
2
3
7
4
7
8
6,,,0
0
0
5
6
4
6
2,,2
0
3
4
9
5
4
3
2
3
1,,,4
4
9
7
7
9
5
1
1
,
1,,5
1
4
9
1
3
,
1
0
4
2,,0
0
0
0
0
9
6
3
5,,9
5
0
6
1
2
7
8
8
3
2,,,0
2
9
7
3
6
7
5
7
3,,,6
2
9
2
7
5
,
1
4
2,1
1
0
6
1
4
6
7
0
2
5,,-------,7
5
8
6
3
1
,
8
3
5
3,,1
4
0
4
3
9
8
8,,8
9
8
0
7
0
7
2
6
3,,--------,6
5
5
7
4
5
2
5
5
6,,,6
5
5
7
4
5
2
5
5
6,,,2
7
9
8
4
7
,
1
4
6
7,,5
2
5
8
6
0
2
6
3
5,,,1
7
5
2
7
2
5
9
9
2,,,0
3
4
7
4
9
8
5
1
,
1,0
2
1
,
9
9
2
9
8
6,,4
6
8
5
8
5
9
8
2
,
1,,6
8
7
0
9
8
6
8
1
,
1,,6
0
5
5
0
8
9
1
6,,7
8
9
9
7
6
2,,2
0
4
7
1
8
3
2
5
9,,,2
9
0
7
2
0
2
7,7
6
2
,
1
3
9
,
1
7,6
6
4
8
0
6
2
9,6
1
0
2
-
2
1
-
1
39
5
0
,
1
5
2
4
7
1
,
4
1,1
9
6
,
1
5
2
2
4
1
,
7,,2
9
4
3
7
0
9
6
7
8,,,0
0
5
8
3
5
0
6,2
8
8
,
1
4
5
7
5
5,,7
0
5
2
4
3
8
9
2,,5
5
0
5
5
5
9
9
1,,3
1
5
7
0
1
,
7
1
4,7
4
0
4
3
7
8
5
2
,
1,,2
4
3
9
6
5
5
8
4,,3
1
5
8
0
9
9
3
2,---,0
0
0
0
0
9
6
3
5,--,0
0
0
5
9
7
2
4
2,1
3
6
,
1
0
3
5
6
9
4,,,4
6
5
4
6
6
3
2
8
,
1,,7
6
3
0
6
8
0
3
5
5,,,2
6
7
8
7
2
9
6
2
,
1,,6
7
5
5
8
8
7
7
1,,9
9
7
4
4
5
2
6
3,,1
5
4
6
8
8
6
2
5
,
1,---,0
0
0
5
6
4
6
2,---,9
9
6
8
3
0
3
8
5,-4
1
1
,
6
2
3
2,,9
4
6
7
8
6
8
4
1,,3
1
9
3
0
4
7
8
2
2,,e
h
t
 
h
t
iw
 
s
t
i
s
o
p
e
d
d
n
a
 
h
s
a
Cs
l
a
t
e
ms
u
o
i
c
e
r
Pk
n
a
B
 
l
a
r
t
n
e
Ch
t
iwt
n
e
m
e
c
a
l
p
d
n
a
 
m
o
r
f
 
e
u
Dl
a
i
c
n
a
n
i
f
 
r
e
h
t
o
d
n
a
 
s
k
n
a
bs
n
o
i
t
u
t
i
t
s
ni项
款
行
银
央
中
放
存
及
金
现属
金
贵金
资
出
拆
及
业
同
放
存e
u
l
a
v
 
r
i
a
f
 
t
a
 
s
t
e
s
s
a
 
l
a
i
c
n
a
n
i
Fs
s
ol
 
r
o
 
t
i
f
o
r
p
h
g
u
o
r
h
t动
变
其
且
量
计
值
价
允
公
以产
资
融
金
的
益
损
期
当
入
计s
t
e
s
s
a
 
l
a
i
c
n
a
n
i
f
 
e
v
i
t
a
v
i
r
e
D产
资
融
金
生
衍l
a
i
c
n
a
n
i
f
 
e
s
a
h
c
r
u
p
e
r
 
e
s
r
e
v
e
Rs
t
e
s
s
a产
资
融
金
售
返
入
买:
s
t
e
s
s
a
 
l
a
i
c
n
a
n
i
F：
产
资
融
金s
r
e
m
o
t
s
u
c
 
o
t
 
s
e
c
n
a
v
d
a
 
d
n
a
 
s
n
a
o
L款
垫
和
款
贷
放
发s
t
e
s
s
a
 
l
a
i
c
n
a
n
i
f
 
e
l
a
s
-
r
o
f
-
e
l
b
a
l
i
a
v
A产
资
融
金
售
出
供
可s
t
e
s
s
a
 
l
a
i
c
n
a
n
i
f
 
r
e
h
t
Os
t
e
s
s
a
 
l
a
i
c
n
a
n
i
f
 
l
a
t
o
T产
资
融
金
他
其计
合
产
资
融
金计
合l
a
t
o
T限
期
无d
e
t
a
d
n
ue
v
o
b
a
 
s
r
a
e
y
 
5s
r
a
e
y
 
5
 
o
t
 
1r
a
e
y
 
1
 
o
t
 
s
h
t
n
o
m
 
3s
h
t
n
o
m
 
3
 
o
t
 
1h
t
n
o
m1
 
n
h
t
iiW/
e
u
d
r
e
v
O上
以
年5年5至1年1至
月
个3月
个3至1内
月
个1还
偿
时
即/期
逾d
n
a
m
e
d
n
O:
s
e
i
t
i
l
ib
a
i
l
 
l
a
i
c
n
a
n
i
F：
债
负
融
金,7
9
2
2
7
4
6
1
4
7,,-,4
4
8
2
8
5
5
8,3
5
5
,
1
9
3
5
4
5
2,,,5
9
3
2
9
1
,
1
3
4
3,,0
8
9
6
9
6
7
2
9,,7
4
9
0
4
2
4
9
2,,8
7
5
7
6
3
2
3
1,7
4
1
,
6
1
4
9
6
4
6,,,8
9
8
0
7
0
7
2
6
3,,,6
5
5
7
4
5
2
5
5
6,,2
3
1
,
6
4
5
,
1
1
9
6,)
3
1
8
,
1
1
7
9
3
8
2
(,,,)
7
3
6
3
6
7
8
0
4
,
1
(,,2
8
8
7
5
2
3
3
1
,
4,,)
1
7
8
0
3
5
6
0
5
0
1
(,,,4
6
8
2
9
0
8
0
4
7
1,,,5
8
2
2
6
5
7
4
6
2,,,1
5
7
5
0
3
5
8
1
,
5
2,,4
6
9
8
3
0
6
6
3,,4
6
8
9
9
9
6
0
6
5
4,,----------,7
3
7
7
8
4
0
6,,9
1
2
2
2
1
,
8
1
0
2,0
7
2
,
1
7
2
2
1
6
2,,,5
0
4
4
0
5
2
2
1,,4
6
8
2
5
9
8
2
8
4,,,8
6
4
5
7
2
4
0
1,,6
5
0
2
4
5
4
6,,8
9
2
9
2
2
4
1,2
8
1
,
7
7
7
6
0
2
4,,,0
5
7
8
0
2
4
7
1
,
2,,6
3
7
4
4
2
7
5
9
,
1
1,,2
7
8
2
6
9
3
1
0
7
1,,,8
2
3
5
1
0
,
1
5
5
8,,0
1
6
5
1
8
5
3
6
4,,,4
8
7
4
3
9
3
9
7
2
1,,,0
0
3
2
7
1
,
4
2
1,8
0
9
8
8
8
0
8
6
0
1,,,5
0
7
3
1
9
3
1
7
3,,,1
0
2
7
5
6
6
6
0
2,,,4
1
0
9
8
4
9
0
4,,5
9
6
6
1
6
,
1
8
3
,
1,3
7
9
8
4
0
6
2
5,,3
0
6
7
0
4
0
3
3,,0
5
7
0
6
4
2
2
8,s
k
n
a
b
m
o
r
f
 
t
n
e
m
e
c
a
l
p
d
n
a
 
o
t
 
e
u
Ds
n
o
i
t
u
t
i
t
s
ni
 
l
a
i
c
n
a
n
i
f
 
r
e
h
t
o
d
n
a-s
e
i
t
i
l
ib
a
i
l
 
l
a
i
c
n
a
n
i
f
 
e
v
i
t
a
v
i
r
e
Ds
e
i
t
i
l
ib
a
i
l
 
l
a
i
c
n
a
n
i
f
 
r
e
h
t
Os
e
i
t
i
l
ib
a
i
l
 
l
a
i
c
n
a
n
i
f
 
l
a
t
o
Ts
t
i
s
o
p
e
d
 
r
e
m
o
t
s
u
Cs
t
n
e
mt
im
m
o
Cy
t
i
d
u
qii
l
 
t
e
N金
资
入
拆
及
放
存
业
同债
负
融
金
生
衍款
存
收
吸债
负
融
金
他
其计
合
债
负
融
金项
事
诺
承
外
表额
净
性
动
流UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|1353. 市场风险
本公司面临的市场风险主要来自利率和汇率产品的敞口头寸。本公
司的交易性业务及非交易性业务均可产生市场风险。本公司市场风
险管理的目标是避免收入和权益由于市场风险产生的过度损失，同
时降低本公司受金融工具内在波动性风险的影响。本公司由风险管理部总览全行的市场风险敞口，并负责拟制相关市
场风险管理政策报送资产负债委员会和执行委员会批准，并定期将
银行市场风险敞口汇报给资产负债委员会和董事会风险管理委员
会。本公司按照既定标准和当前管理能力监管市场风险，其主要的监管
方法包括敏感性分析，风险价值，压力测试等。在新产品或新业务
上线前，该产品和业务中的市场风险将按照规定予以辨识。本公司根据不同账户的各自特点将表内外资产负债划分为交易账户
或银行账户。交易账户主要包括因交易目的或者是为规避交易账户
其他项目风险而持有的可自由交易的金融工具和商品头寸。交易账
户中的市场风险取决于交易的工具，包括利率、汇率、信贷利差、
商品价格、外汇波动率等。银行账户包括除交易账户外的其他金融
工具。银行账户中的主要风险是利率和信贷利差风险。3.1 汇率风险
主要是由于本公司资产和负债的货币错配以及外汇交易无法及时规
避风险敞口以至于暴露于市场波动而引起的风险。(3) Market risk
The  Bank  is  exposed  to  market  risk  mainly  from  foreign 
exchange rate and interest rate related products arising from 
trading as well as non-trading businesses. The objective of 
market risk management is to minimise the negative impact 
of volatility of financial instruments on the Bank’s earnings 
and equity.The Risk Management Division monitors the Bank’s market 
risk  exposure  and  formulates  market  risk  policies  for 
approval by the Asset Liability Committee and the Executive 
Committee. Risk profile reports are submitted to the Asset 
Liability Committee and Board Risk Management Committee 
on a regular basis.The Bank measures and manages its market risk in accordance 
with a framework of policies and practices which include 
sensitivity  analysis,  Value-at-Risk  measure,  stress  testing 
etc. In addition, the market  risk associated with any new 
product/business is required to be identified and addressed 
prior to launch.The  Bank  divides  the  balance  sheet  assets  and  liabilities 
into  the  trading  book  or  banking  book  according  to  the 
characteristics of different accounts. Trading book mainly 
includes free trading financial instruments and commodity 
positions held for the purpose of trading or for avoiding the 
risk of other items in the transaction account. The market 
risk in trading book depends on the tools of the transactions, 
including  interest  rates,  exchange  rates,  credit  spreads, 
commodity  prices  and  foreign  exchange  volatility,  etc. 
Banking book includes other financial instruments outside 
the trading book. The main risk in the banking book is the risk 
of interest rates and credit spreads.(3.1) Currency risk 
The  Bank’s  currency  risk  arises  mainly  from  currency 
mismatches  of  assets  and  liabilities  as  well  as  foreign 
exchange trading business whereby the open positions are 
subject to exchange rate fluctuations.136 大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告|于 2017 年 12 月 31 日，本公司的有关资产及负债按币种列示如下：As at 31 December 2017, the Bank’s assets and liabilities by 
currency is as follows:31-12-2017美元人民币其他合计USD 
(RMB equivalent)RMBOthers 
 (RMB equivalent)Total 
 (RMB equivalent)资产：Assets:现金及存放中央银行款项 Cash and deposit with the central bank1,241,415,4025,920,165,6727,957,1987,169,538,272存放同业及拆出资金以公允价值计量且其变动
计入当期损益的金融资产Due from and placement with banks and other 
financial institutions6,835,075,0337,216,490,913497,989,13714,549,555,083Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss-2,486,366,862---2,486,366,8625,576,168,4271,344,195,000衍生金融资产Derivative financial assets108,403,9575,467,764,470买入返售金融资产Reverse repurchase financial assets-1,344,195,000发放贷款和垫款Loans and advances to customers5,219,854,662   21,097,540,160819,201,96527,136,596,787可供出售金融资产Available-for-sale financial assets-4,369,225,273-4,369,225,273其他金融资产Other financial assets44,724,138496,596,3073,192,423544,512,868金融资产合计Total financial assets13,449,473,192 48,398,344,6571,328,340,72363,176,158,572负债：Liabilities:同业存放及拆入资金Due to and placement from banks and other 
financial institutions16,536,338,4102,876,932,972735,702,98120,148,974,363衍生金融负债Derivative financial liabilities67,213,6315,592,606,184-5,659,819,815吸收存款Customer deposits2,048,416,008   27,773,044,841451,351,36630,272,812,215其他金融负债Other financial liabilities178,470,821268,175,87236,460,453483,107,146金融负债合计Total financial liabilities18,830,438,870 36,510,759,8691,223,514,80056,564,713,539资产负债净头寸Net position(5,380,965,678)11,887,584,788104,825,9236,611,445,033衍生金融工具名义金额Notional amounts of derivative financial 
instruments324,760,717,865  304,471,086,339408,629,125629,640,433,329信贷承诺Commitments1,383,590,5144,253,793,6202,608,661,9768,246,046,110UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|137于 2016 年 12 月 31 日，本公司的有关资产及负债按币种列示如下：As at 31 December 2016, the Bank’s assets and liabilities by 
currency is as follows:31-12-2016美元人民币其他合计USD 
(RMB equivalent)RMBOthers 
 (RMB equivalent)Total 
 (RMB equivalent)资产：Assets:现金及存放中央银行款项 Cash and balances with the Central Bank1,946,063,024 4,926,208,6282,460,7936,874,732,445贵金属Precious metals-26,465,000-26,465,000存放同业及拆出资金以公允价值计量且其变动
计入当期损益的金融资产Due from and placement with banks and other 
financial institutions6,103,173,084  7,004,800,009126,621,20913,234,594,302Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss-1,115,977,944---1,115,977,9442,401,319,415536,900,000衍生金融资产Derivative financial assets64,328,8232,336,990,592买入返售金融资产Reverse repurchase financial assets-536,900,000发放贷款和垫款Loans and advances to customers4,063,101,681     18,928,148,625895,965,75323,887,216,059可供出售金融资产Available-for-sale financial assets-3,757,637,920-3,757,637,920其他金融资产Other financial assets25,341,406212,581,3963,650,124241,572,926金融资产合计Total financial assets12,202,008,01838,845,710,1141,028,697,87952,076,416,011负债：Liabilities:同业存放及拆入资金Due to and placement from banks and other 
financial institutions13,020,428,2203,573,853,419813,811,22517,408,092,864衍生金融负债Derivative financial liabilities117,246,4302,530,315,855-2,647,562,285吸收存款Customer deposits2,033,422,335  22,569,772,412582,111,00425,185,305,751其他金融负债Other financial liabilities28,093,091331,968,7125,977,161366,038,964金融负债合计Total financial liabilities15,199,190,076 29,005,910,3981,401,899,39045,606,999,864资产负债净头寸Net position(2,997,182,058)9,839,799,716(373,201,511)6,469,416,147衍生金融工具名义金额Notional amounts of derivative financial 
instruments111,049,978,142 124,375,588,3721,565,438,254236,991,004,768信贷承诺Commitments1,727,804,979  4,956,284,9491,007,382,3697,691,472,297138 大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告|以下是在其他变量不变的情况下，外币对本位币汇率可能发生的合
理变动对税前利润的影响。Holding  all  other  variables  constant,  the  impact  from  a 
change in foreign exchange rates on profit before tax of the 
Bank is as follows:变量变动Change in Foreign Exchange Rate对本位币贬值 1%-1% change against RMB对本位币升值 1%+1% change against RMB以上敏感性分析基于资产和负债具有静态的汇率风险结构，其计算
了当其他因素不变时，外币对人民币汇率的合理可能变动对税前利
润的影响。有关的分析基于以下假设：
(1)   汇率敏感度是指各币种对人民币于报告日当天收盘 ( 中间价 ) 汇率绝对值波动 1% 造成的汇兑损益；(2)   各币种汇率变动是指各币种对人民币汇率同时同向波动；(3)   该汇率风险敞口不包含资产负债表表外科目。由于基于上述假设，汇率变化导致本公司汇兑净损益出现的实际变
化可能与此敏感性分析的结果不同。3.2 利率风险
资产负债委员会负责总揽利率风险管理框架的有效性。资产负债风
险管理部协助资产负债委员会负责监测银行账户下的利率风险。利率风险管理的主要目标就是在多样化的经济环境中，通过管理银
行的净利息收入来保护并促进银行资本和经济价值的增长。
 
本公司使用分析工具，包括重定价期限和敏感性分析定量测算银行
账户利率风险敞口。通过对利率敏感资产负债相对于利率变动的分
析，揭示利率变动对利息收入及经济价值潜在影响。利率敏感度受
重新定价期限、币种及隐含的期权的影响。相比于短期错配，长期
的利率错配对利率头寸价值的影响更大。31-12-2017对税前利润影响
 Impact on profit52,761,398(52,761,398)31-12-2016对税前利润影响
 Impact on profit33,707,883(33,707,883)The sensitivity analysis above is performed on the basis that 
assets and liabilities have static currency risk structure. It 
shows the impact of a change in other currency rates against 
RMB on the Bank’s profit before tax, given other variables 
remain constant.The analysis is based on below assumptions:
(1)   Exchange rate sensitivity refers to the gains and losses 
caused by one per cent change of the closing rate (mid 
rate) of the different foreign currencies against RMB as at 
the balance sheet date;(2)    Exchange rate fluctuation refers to the fluctuation againstRMB in the same direction simultaneously;(3)    Off-balance sheet items are excluded.Due  to  the  above  assumptions,  the  actual  impact  of 
exchange rate fluctuation on the Bank’s earnings may differ 
from above sensitivity analysis.(3.2) Interest rate risk
The ALCO maintains oversight of the effectiveness of the 
interest rate risk management structure. The Balance Sheet 
Risk  Management  (BSRM)  Division  supports  the  ALCO  in 
monitoring the interest rate risk profile of the banking book.The  primary  objective  of  interest  rate  risk  management 
is  to  protect  and  to  enhance  capital  or  economic  net 
worth through adequate, stable and reliable growth in net 
interest earnings under a broad range of possible economic 
conditions.Banking book interest rate risk exposure is quantified using 
analysis  tools  include  repricing  schedules  and  sensitivity 
analysis. They provide indications of the potential impact of 
interest rate changes on interest income and economic value 
through the analysis of the sensitivity of assets and liabilities 
to changes in interest rates. Interest rate sensitivity varies 
with different repricing periods, currencies and embedded 
options  Mismatches  in  the  longer  tenor  will  experience 
greater impact in the price-value of interest rate positions 
than similar positions in the shorter tenor.UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|139本公司亦采用如净利息收入和净资产经济价值定量分析方法定期进
行利率风险压力测试 , 以管理银行的资本金应对因为利率的大幅波
动对银行资产负债表的影响。同时，该压力测试也用于对极端情况
下可能发生高额损失的早期预警并促进银行在快速波动的市场环境
下积极地管理利率风险。由于利率，汇率和股权价格变化带来交易账户下的风险通过市场风
险管理框架来进行管理和监控。The Bank also performs quantitative analysis method of net 
interest income and economic value of net assets regularly 
to determine the adequacy of capital in meeting the impact 
of extreme interest rate movements on the balance sheet. 
Such  tests  are  also  performed  to  provide  early  warnings 
of  potential  extreme  losses,  facilitating  the  proactive 
management of interest rate risks in an environment of rapid 
financial market changes.The risks arising from the trading book, such as interest rates, 
foreign exchange rates and equity prices are managed and 
controlled under the market risk framework.于 2017 年 12 月 31 日，本公司银行账户及交易账户包含的所有的资产
及负债按合同重定价日或到期日两者较早者分析如下：As at 31 December 2017, the Bank’s assets/liabilities of trading 
book and banking book re-pricing profiles (based on the earlier 
of maturity date and re-pricing date) is as follows:资产：Assets:现金及存放中央银行款项存放同业及拆出资金以公允价值计量且其变动
计入当期损益的金融资产Cash and deposit with the 
central bank
Due from and placement with 
banks and other financial 
institutions
Financial assets at fair value 
through profit or loss31-12-20173 个月内 3 个月至 1 年1 至 5 年 5 年以上不计息Within 3  
months3 months  
to 1 year1 to 5 years5 years 
aboveNon interest 
bearing合计Total5,912,421,421-13,142,423,0571,407,132,026---1,257,116,8517,169,538,272--14,549,555,0831,879,245,864577,861,458-    29,259,540-2,486,366,862衍生金融资产Derivative financial assets278,994,818,433  282,063,735,01718,701,009,195-     109,420,369  579,868,983,014买入返售金融资产Reverse repurchase financial 
assets1,344,195,000-发放贷款和垫款Loans and advances to customers 22,860,446,9154,276,149,872--可供出售金融资产Available-for-sale financial assets2,421,673,8441,652,433,330295,118,099----1,344,195,000-    27,136,596,787-4,369,225,273其他金融资产金融资产合计Other financial assets----    544,512,868544,512,868Total financial assets326,555,224,534  289,977,311,70318,996,127,294   29,259,540  1,911,050,088   637,468,973,159负债：Liabilities:同业存放及拆入资金Due to and placement from 
banks and other financial 
institutions16,954,286,6533,165,900,965-衍生金融负债Derivatives financial liabilities279,796,665,074 281,075,723,00719,013,121,595Customer deposits22,179,848,3737,497,863,782595,100,060Other financial liabilities---吸收存款其他金融负债金融负债合计----28,786,74520,148,974,36386,676,914 579,972,186,590-30,272,812,215483,107,146483,107,146Total financial liabilities318,930,800,100 291,739,487,75419,608,221,655- 598,570,805 630,877,080,314利率风险缺口Net position7,624,424,434(1,762,176,051)(612,094,361) 29,259,540 1,312,479,2836,591,892,845140 大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告|于 2016 年 12 月 31 日，本公司银行账户及交易账户包含的所有的资产
及负债按合同重定价日或到期日两者较早者分析如下：As at 31 December 2016, the Bank’s assets/liabilities of trading 
book and banking book re-pricing profiles (based on the earlier 
of maturity date and re-pricing date) is as follows (continued) :31-12-20163 个月内 3 个月至 1 年1 至 5 年 5 年以上不计息Within 3  
months3 months  
to 1 year1 to 5 years5 years 
aboveNon interest 
bearing合计Total资产：Assets:现金及存放中央银行款项Cash and balances with the Central 
Bank4,916,022,197贵金属Precious metals---存放同业及拆出资金以公允价值计量且其变动计
入当期损益的金融资产Due from and placement with banks 
and other financial institutions
Financial assets at fair value through 
profit or loss10,972,912,6712,261,681,631497,897,562557,541,88260,538,500----    1,958,710,2486,874,732,445---26,465,00026,465,000--13,234,594,3021,115,977,944衍生金融资产Derivative financial assets215,878,130,056746,698,361   1,336,142,120-92,593,358  218,053,563,895买入返售金融资产Reverse repurchase financial assets536,900,000--发放贷款和垫款Loans and advances to customers20,049,248,890 3,326,547,795511,419,374可供出售金融资产Available-for-sale financial assets1,909,391,370689,299,120 1,158,947,430Other financial assets--------536,900,000-    23,887,216,059-3,757,637,920241,572,926241,572,926Total financial assets254,760,502,7467,581,768,789  3,067,047,424-    2,319,341,532 267,728,660,491Liabilities:同业存放及拆入资金Due to and placement from banks 
and other financial institutions14,912,223,114 2,495,869,750-衍生金融负债Derivatives financial liabilities215,769,508,040751,241,151  1,326,071,849Customer deposits18,338,230,668 4,828,952,864 2,018,122,219--------17,408,092,864129,236,291  217,976,057,331-25,185,305,751366,038,964366,038,964其他金融资产资产金融合计负债：吸收存款其他金融负债金融负债合计利率风险缺口Other liabilitiesTotal liabilitiesNet position249,019,961,822   8,076,063,765  3,344,194,068-495,275,255  260,935,494,9105,740,540,924   (494,294,976)(277,146,644)- 1,824,066,2776,793,165,581UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|141本公司对浮动利率工具按照重定价日，对固定利率工具按照到期日
管理计息金融资产及计息金融负债的重定价情况。以下是在其他变量不变的情况下，利率可能发生的合理变动对净损
益、其他综合收益的税后净额及所有者权益方面的影响。The Bank profiles its interest bearing assets and liabilities 
based on maturity date for fixed rate items or re-pricing date 
for floating rate items.Holding other variables constant, the impact of interest rate 
movement on the Bank’s net profit, other comprehensive 
income after tax and equity is as follows:31-12-2017变量变动Change in interest rate对净损益的影响对其他综合收益的税后净额的影响 对所有者权益的影响Impact on net profitImpact on other comprehensive income after taxImpact on equity利率增加 100 个基点+ 100 basis points利率减少 100 个基点-  100 basis points45,079,165(45,079,165)(14,316,755)14,316,75530,762,410(30,762,410)31-12-2016变量变动Change in interest rate对净损益的影响对其他综合收益的税后净额的影响 对所有者权益的影响Impact on net profitImpact on other comprehensive income after taxImpact on equity利率增加 100 个基点+ 100 basis points利率减少 100 个基点-  100 basis points36,282,095(36,282,095)(16,126,982)16,126,98220,155,113(20,155,113)以上敏感性分析基于资产和负债具有静态的利率风险结构。有关的
分析仅衡量一年内利率变化，反映为一年内本公司资产和负债的重
新定价对本公司按年化计算利息收入的影响，基于以下假设：(1)  所有在三个月内及三个月后但一年内重新定价或到期的资产和负债均假设在有关期间中间重新定价或到期；(2)  收益率曲线随利率变化而平行移动；(3)  资产和负债组合并无其他变化；(4)  此利率风险敞口不包含资产负债表表外科目。由于基于上述假设，利率增减导致本公司利息净收入出现的实际变
化可能与此敏感性分析的结果不同。其他综合收益的税后净额变动的敏感性分析是基于收益率曲线随利
率变动而平移的假设，通过设定利率变动一定百分比对期末可供出
售债券投资公允价值进行重新估算得出的。The sensitivity analysis above is performed on the basis that 
assets and liabilities have static interest rate risk structure. 
It  reflects  the  impact  of  interest  rate  movement  on  the 
Bank’s net interest income over a one-year period. The key 
assumptions are as follows:(1)  All assets and liabilities with re-pricing date less than 
three months or between three months and one year are 
assumed to be re-priced in the middle of the respective 
time bucket;(2)  Yield curve shifts in parallel with interest rate change;(3)  Assets and liabilities are not subject to other changes;and(4)    Off-balance sheet items are excluded.Due  to  the  above  assumptions,  the  actual  impact  of  net 
interest income from interest rate movement may differ from 
above sensitivity analysis.The  impact  on  other  comprehensive  income  after  tax  is 
estimated from the change in market value of “Available-for-
sale” portfolio caused by a parallel shift of yield curve arising 
from interest rate change.142 大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告|4. 公允价值(4) Fair value of financial instruments公允价值，是指市场参与者在计量日发生的有序交易中，出售一项
资产所能收到或者转移一项负债所需支付的价格。在交易活跃之市
场 ( 例如认可证券交易所 ) 存在的条件下，市价乃金融工具公允价
值之最佳证明。然而，本公司所持有及发行之部分金融资产及负债
并无市价。因此，对于该部分无市价可依之金融工具，以如下所述
之现值或其他估计方法估算公允价值。但是，运用此等方法所计之
价值会受有关未来现金流量数额，时间性假设，以及所采用之折现
率影响。所采用之方法及假设如下：(i)  以公允价值计量且其变动计入当期损益的金融资产 / 金融负债
（包括衍生金融资产 / 金融负债）乃参考可供参照之市价计算
其公允价值。倘无可供参照之市价，则将现金流量折现估算公
允价值或参照交易对方的报价确定公允价值。公允价值等于此
等项目之账面金额；(ii)  于 12 个月内到期之其他金融资产金融负债由于期限较短，它们的账面价值与公允价值相若；(iii)  凡定息贷款按当时适用于类似贷款之市场利率贷出，其公允价
值以参照市场利率方法估算。贷款组合中信贷质量之变化在确
定总公允价值时不予考虑，因为信贷风险之影响将单独作为贷
款损失，从账面值及公允价值中扣除；(iv)  客户存款乃按不同品种使用固定或浮动利率。活期存款及无指
定届满期之储蓄账户假设结算日按通知应付金额为公允价值。
有固定期限之存款的公允价值以现金流量折现法估算，折现率
为与该定期存款的剩余期限对应的现行存款利率。本公司确定公允价值的方法可以归结为以下两种：(i)     市值计价：计价是运用独立并未经调整的市场报价；(ii)    估值计价：计价是运用估值技术进行估值。Fair  value  is  the  price  that  would  be  received  to  sell  an 
asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction 
between  market  participants  at  the  measurement  date. 
Subject  to  the  existence  of  an  active  market,  such  as  an 
authorised securities exchange, the market value is the best 
reflection of the fair value of financial instruments.  As there 
is no available market value for some of the financial assets 
and liabilities held and issued by the Bank, the discounted 
cash  flow  method  or  other  valuation  methods  described 
below  are  adopted  to  determine  the  fair  value  of  these 
assets and liabilities.  However, the value determined by such 
methods would depend on the amount of future cash flows, 
time period assumption and discount rates used.The  following  methods  and  assumptions  are  used  in 
estimating fair values:(i)Financial  assets  at  fair  value  through  profit  or  loss 
(including derivative assets/liabilities) are stated at fair 
value by reference to the quoted market prices when 
available.  If quoted market prices are not available, the 
fair value is estimated using discounted cash flows or 
quoted  price  from  the  counter  parties.  The  carrying 
amounts of these items reflect the fair value as at the 
balance sheet date;(ii)  The fair values of other financial assets and liabilities 
maturing within 12 months are assumed to be equal to 
their carrying amounts in view of their short maturity;(iii)  The fair value of fixed rate loans priced at market rate 
at the time the loans are extended shall be determined 
using prevailing market rates of similar loans. Changes 
in the credit quality of loans within the portfolio are 
not  taken into account in determining  the  fair values 
as the impact of credit risk is recognised separately as 
impairment provision which shall be deducted from the 
carrying amounts and fair value;(iv)  Customer  deposits  are priced based  on  fixed rate  or 
floating rate depending on the product type.  The fair 
value of demand deposits and saving deposits without 
specific maturity date is determined based on the amount 
payable on demand.  The fair value of fixed deposits are 
estimated using discounted cash flows method with the 
prevailing deposit rate for the remaining tenor of the 
fixed deposit as the discount rate.The method of determining a fair value in the Bank can be 
categorised into two main approaches:(i)  Mark to Market - where the valuation uses independentunadjusted quoted market prices;(ii)  Mark to Model - where valuation techniques are used todetermine the valuation.UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|143估值调整作为实现公允价值的一个必要组成，要求根据客观情况，
对交易价格进行调整以确保公允价值的准确性。本公司遵循的估值
调整方法考虑到不同的因素，例如买卖价差估值调整和模型估值调
整，以确保计价的合理有效。本公司建立了内部控制机制来确保公允价值的合理性。如果采用模
型式估值，模型中的假设和技术都会事先经过独立专家小组的专门
验证。此外，模型中的价格、输入参数、假设和估值调整方法都会
经过核实和复查。其他的估值控制还包括复核和分析日常盈亏。本公司将所有进行公允价值估值的金融产品划分为三个层次：第一层次：公开市场价格
这种估值技术运用相同资产和负债的活跃市场报价得出估值金额。
被归纳此层次的金融产品包括由中央国债登记结算有限公司每日公
布市场价格的债券。第二层次：估值输入参数可以通过市场观察得到的估值技术
这种估值方式是通过标准模型确定，而输入的主要参数都能在市场
上直接观察。这种技术包括现金流折现分析、期权定价模型和一些
市场参与者普遍使用和接受的技术。被纳入这个层次的金融产品主
要为外汇远期，外汇互换，贵金属远期 / 互换及柜台交易的衍生
品（如货币市场拆借、利率互换、外汇期权、买断式转贴现），并
包括公允价值由交易对手提供的金融产品（如背对背对冲结构性产
品）。第三层次：当主要参数不能直接观察得到时采用的估值技术
这种估值技术运用合理市场假设的基础上获取主要不可观察参数。
目前本公司还没有相关的金融产品被归纳在这个层次。以上各假设及方法乃为本公司资产及负债之公允价值提供一致之计
算准则。然而，由于其他机构或会使用不同之方法及假设，各金融
机构所披露之公允价值未必完全具有可比性。144 大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告|Valuation adjustments are an integral part of the fair value 
process that  requires the exercise of  judgment to  ensure 
correct  fair  value  representation.  In  making  appropriate 
valuation adjustments, the Bank follows the methodologies 
that  consider  factors  such  as  bid-offer  spread  valuation 
adjustment and model valuation adjustment.The  Bank  has  established  internal  control  procedures 
over the valuation process to provide assurance over the 
appropriateness  of the fair values  applied. If fair value is 
determined  by  valuation  models,  the  assumptions  and 
techniques within the models are independently validated 
by a specialist group. In addition, price and parameter inputs, 
assumptions  and  valuation  adjustments  are  subject  to 
verification and review processes. Other valuation control 
includes review and analysis of daily profit and loss.The Bank classifies all the fair value instruments according to 
the following hierarchy:Level 1: Quoted market price
This  valuation  technique  uses  recent  unadjusted  quoted 
prices  for  identical  assets  or  liabilities  in  active  markets 
where the price represents actual and regularly occurring 
market  transactions  on  an  arm’s  length  basis.  Financial 
instruments included in this class are bonds with the marked-
to-market prices actively made available and announced by 
China Central Depository and Clearing Co. Ltd.Level 2: Valuation technique using observable inputs
This valuation technique is used for financial instruments 
where  the  prices  are  derived  from  standard  valuation 
models, and significant inputs to these models are directly 
observable.  The  valuation  techniques  include  the  use  of 
discounted cash flow analysis, option pricing models and 
other  valuation  techniques  widely  used  and  accepted  by 
market  participants.  The  financial  instruments  included 
in this category are mainly Foreign Exchange Forward and 
Foreign Exchange Swaps, Noble Metals Forward and Swaps, 
and  OTC  derivatives  (namely  money  market  deposit  and 
placement,  interest  rate  swap,  FX  Option,  Rediscounted 
bills) and financial instruments with fair value derived from 
counterparty (for structured products arranged on back-to-
back basis).Level 3: Valuation technique with significant non-observable 
inputs 
This  valuation  technique  is  used  where  at  least  one 
significant input is not observable and reliance is placed on 
reasonable assumptions made on market conditions. There is 
currently no financial instrument being classified under such 
category.All the assumptions and methods mentioned above provide 
a consistent basis for the calculation of fair value of the 
Bank’s assets and liabilities.  However, other institutions may 
use different assumptions and methods.  Therefore, the fair 
values disclosed by different financial institutions may not be 
entirely comparable.下表列示了以公允价值计量的金融工具的公允价值层次：The  following  table  shows  the  fair  value  hierarchy  of 
financial instruments measured in fair value:31-12-2017以公允价值计量且其变动
计入当期损益的金融资产Financial assets at fair value through 
profit or loss衍生金融资产Derivative financial assets可供出售金融资产Available-for-sale financial assets金融资产合计拆入黄金Total financial assetsGold borrowing以公允价值计量且其变动
计入当期损益的金融负债Financial liability at fair value through 
profit or loss衍生金融负债Derivative financial liabilities指定以公允价值计量的存款Deposits designated at fair value through 
profit or loss金融负债合计Total financial liabilities31-12-2016以公允价值计量且其变动
计入当期损益的金融资产Financial assets at fair value through 
profit or loss衍生金融资产Derivative financial assets可供出售金融资产Available-for-sale financial assets金融资产合计Total financial assets拆入黄金Gold borrowing以公允价值计量且其变动
计入当期损益的金融负债Financial liability at fair value through 
profit or loss衍生金融负债Derivative financial liabilities指定以公允价值计量的存款Deposits designated at fair value through 
profit or loss金融负债合计Total financial liabilities本年度，本公司未发生以公允价值计量的第一层次和第二层次金融
资产和负债之间的转换。管理层认为，于年末，本公司的其他金融资产和金融负债的公允价
值与相应的账面价值并无重大差异。公允价值计量使用的输入值 
Inputs in fair value measurement活跃市场报价 重要可观察输入值 重要不可观察输入值Active market  
quotes
( 第一层次 ) 
(Level 1)Significant  
observable inputs
( 第二层次 ) 
(Level 2)Significant non- 
observable inputs
( 第三层次 ) 
(Level 3)合计Total--------2,486,366,8625,576,168,4274,369,225,27312,431,760,5622,397,504,2451,362,073,6335,659,819,815995,287,36110,414,685,054---------2,486,366,8625,576,168,4274,369,225,27312,431,760,5622,397,504,2451,362,073,6335,659,819,815995,287,36110,414,685,054公允价值计量使用的输入值 
Inputs in fair value measurement活跃市场报价 重要可观察输入值 重要不可观察输入值Active market  
quotes
( 第一层次 ) 
(Level 1)Significant  
observable inputs
( 第二层次 ) 
(Level 2)Significant non- 
observable inputs
( 第三层次 ) 
(Level 3)合计Total---------1,115,977,9442,401,319,4153,757,637,9207,274,935,279529,767,0271,578,387,4612,647,562,2851,126,344,4365,882,061,209---------1,115,977,9442,401,319,4153,757,637,9207,274,935,279529,767,0271,578,387,4612,647,562,2851,126,344,4365,882,061,209During the year, the Bank had no transfers between level 1 
and level 2 of the fair value hierarchy for financial assets and 
liabilities which were recorded at fair value.In the opinion of the management, the difference between 
the fair value and the carrying amount of the other financial 
assets and financial liabilities is not material as at the balance 
sheet date.UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|145十一、关联方关系及交易1. 关联方的认定标准于本年度，下列各方构成本公司的关联方：(1) 本公司的母公司；11. Related party transactions(1) Criteria of identifying related parties
Details  of  the  Bank’s  major  related  parties  in  2017  are  as 
follows:(1) Parent company of the Company;(2) 与本公司受同一母公司控制的其他企业；(2) Entities under control of the same parent company;(3) 对本公司施加重大影响的投资方；(3) Investors exercise significant influence over the Bank;(4) 本公司的关键管理人员以及与其关系密切的家庭成员；(5) 本公司的关键管理人员或与其关系密切的家庭成员控制、共同控
     制或施加重大影响的其他企业；(6) 本公司设立的企业年金基金。(4) Key management personnel of the Bank or the close  
     family members;(5) Enterprises under control, jointly control or significant 
     influence of the key management personnel of the Bank 
     or the close family members;(6) Annuity established by the Bank.2. 本公司母公司                                                                       (2) Parent company of the Bank名称
Name业务性质
Business Nature注册地
Registered Address大华银行有限公司银行及金融服务新加坡股本
Share Capital新币 6,351 百万United Overseas Bank LimitedBanking and Financial ServiceSingaporeSGD 6,351 Million拥有权益比例
Shareholding100%100%3. 于本年内与本公司有关联交易的其他关联方(3) The related parties which the Bank had transactions   
during the year are as follows同受母公司控制的公司
Company under the common control of parent company
名称
Name业务性质
Business Nature大华银行（马来西亚）有限公司
United Overseas Bank (Malaysia) Bhd.银行及金融服务
Banking and Financial Service注册地
Registered Address
马来西亚 吉隆坡
Kuala Lumpur Malaysia注册资本
Registered Capital法定代表人
Legal Representative马来西亚林吉特 20 亿元
RM 2 Billion黄金松
Wong Kim Choong大华银行（泰国）有限公司
United Overseas Bank (Thai) Public 
Company Limited华大（上海）信息科技有限公司
UOBBF Information Technology Pte., Ltd.上海华新置业有限公司
UOB Property China Co., Ltd.优欧弼投资管理（上海）有限公司
UOB Venture Management (Shanghai) 
Co., Ltd大华资产管理有限公司
UOB Asset ManagementUOB Holdings (USA) Inc.银行及金融服务
Banking and Financial Service泰国 曼谷
Bangkok Thailand泰铢 248.57 亿元
Baht 24.857 BillionTan Choon Hin网 络 科 技 领 域 内 的 技 术 开 发、 
技术咨询、技术服务
Internet technology development, 
technology consulting and service中国 上海
Shanghai China房地产开发、经营、租赁和管理
Real estate development, operating, 
leasing and management中国 上海
Shanghai China新币 100 万元
SGD 1 MillionGoi Chin Poh人民币 22.59 亿元
RMB 2.259 BillionLee Wai Fai投资管理，自有资产管理，
投资咨询
Consulting and investment 
management资产管理
Investment management控股公司
Holding company中国 上海
Shanghai China美元 1,555 万元
USD 15.55 Million谢建伟
Seah Kian Wee新加坡
Singapore美国 纽约
New York  USA新币 6,300 万元
SGD 63,000,000美元 650 万元
USD 6.5 MillionThio Boon KiatRayson Li Kin Hung146 大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告|受母公司重大影响的公司
Company under the significant influence of the parent company
名称
Name业务性质
Business Nature恒丰银行股份有限公司
Evergrowing Bank Co., Limited平安大华基金管理有限公司
Ping An UOB Fund Management 
Company Limited本公司的关键管理人员银行及金融服务
Banking and Financial Service
基金募集、基金销售、资产管理 中国 深圳注册地
Registered Address
中国 烟台
Yantai China注册资本
Registered Capital
人民币 16.9 亿元
RMB 1.69 Billion
人民币 3 亿元法定代表人
Legal Representative蔡国华
Cai Guo Hua罗春风Fund managementShenzhen ChinaRMB 300 millionLuo Chun Feng关键管理人员，包括本公司的董事、监事及高级管理人员。受本公司关键管理人员重大影响的公司
Company under the significant influence of the Bank’s key management名称
Name华业（厦门）酒店有限公司
Hua Ye Xiamen Hotel Limited业务性质
Business Nature经营管理酒店
Hotel management天津华业希望房地产开发有限公司
Tianjin UOL Xiwang Real Estate Co., Ltd.房地产开发
Real estate developmentkey management personnelKey management personnel include directors, supervisor and 
senior management.注册地
Registered Address注册资本
Registered Capital法定代表人
Legal Representative中国 厦门
Xiamen China中国 天津
Tianjin China美元 3,700 万元
USD 37 Million梁顺合
Neo Soon Hup人民币 10.3 亿元
RMB 1.03 Billion粘为信
Liam Wee Sin庆隆（上海）投资管理有限公司
Kheng Leong (Shanghai) Investment  
Management Co., Ltd厦门虎标医药有限公司
Xiamen Tiger Medicals Co., Ltd.商务信息、企业管理及
投资管理咨询
Business information consulting, Corporate 
management consulting, Investment 
management consulting制造和销售国药产品
Manufacture and sale of Chinese 
pharmaceutical products中国 上海
Shanghai China美元 650 万元
USD 6.5 Million黄一超
Wee Ee Chao中国 厦门
Xiamen China美元 820 万元
USD 8.2 Million吴美蓉
Goh Bee Leong虎豹企业有限公司
Haw Par Corporation Limited投资控股
Investment holding新加坡
Singapore新币 251,359,000 元
SGD 251,359,000黄祖耀
Wee Cho Yaw新嘉置地（成都）发展有限公司
Singland (Chengdu) Development Co., Ltd.房地产开发、经营、租赁和管理Real estate development, operating, leasing 
and management中国 成都
Chengdu China美元 2,400 万元
USD 24 MillionLee Ngai Hon华业商务咨询（上海）有限公司
UOL Business Consulting 
 (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.商务信息、企业管理、
投资及建筑方案咨询
Business information consulting, Corporate 
management consulting, Investment 
consulting, Construction plan consulting中国 上海
Shanghai China美元 8 万元
USD 80,000粘为信
Liam Wee Sin上海锦鹏置业有限公司
Shanghai Jin Peng Realty Co., Ltd.房地产开发及经营
Real estate development and operation中国 上海
Shanghai China人民币 23 亿元
RMB 2.3 BillionLim Beng Teong御道津旅（天津）发展有限公司
UIC JinTravel (Tianjin) Co., Ltd.新型建筑材料生产、写字楼、公寓酒店、
商业设施的销售、租赁、管理
Manufacturing of new construction 
materials, sale, lease and management 
of office buildings, apartment hotel, 
commercial facilities中国 天津
Tianjin China人民币 240.6 亿元
RMB 24.06 Million林福山
Lim Hock San上海锦骏置业有限公司
Shanghai Jin Jun Realty Co., Ltd.房地产开发及经营
Real estate development and operation中国 上海
Shanghai China人民币 7.1 亿元
RMB 710 MillionLim Beng Teong泛太平洋（上海）酒店管理有限公司
Pan Pacific (Shanghai) Hotel Management 
Co., Ltd.酒店管理、投资咨询、企业管理咨询
Hotel management, investment consulting 
and  corporate management consulting中国 上海
Shanghai China美元 5 万元
USD 50,000梁顺合
Neo Soon HupUNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|1474. 本公司与关联方之主要交易(4) Main transactions between the Bank and related parties发放贷款和垫款Loans and advances to customers31-12-201731-12-2016余额 
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)余额 
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)御道津旅（天津）发展有限公司 UIC JinTravel (Tianjin) Co., Ltd.60,000,0000.2262,000,000上海锦骏置业有限公司Shanghai Jin Jun Realty Co., Ltd.20,850,2740.08-上海锦鹏置业有限公司Shanghai Jin Peng Realty Co., Ltd.--371,090,894合计Total80,850,2740.30433,090,8940.25-1.521.77存放及拆放款项Due from and placement with banks31-12-201731-12-2016余额 
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)余额 
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)大华银行有限公司United Overseas Bank Limited484,092,2133.3358,003,243大华银行（马来西亚）有限公司 United Overseas Bank (Malaysia) Bhd.平安大华基金管理有限公司Ping An UOB Fund Management 
Company Limited517,56627,659--657,879-合计Total484,637,4383.3358,661,1220.44--0.44存入及拆入款项Due to and placements from banks31-12-201731-12-2016余额 
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)余额 
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)大华银行有限公司United Overseas Bank Limited19,626,327,28097.4115,112,898,228大华银行（泰国）有限公司United Overseas Bank (Thai) Public 
Company Limited20,922-404,661合计Total19,626,348,20297.4115,113,302,88986.82-86.82148 大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告|吸收存款Customer deposits31-12-201731-12-2016余额 
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)余额 
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)上海锦鹏置业有限公司Shanghai Jin Peng Realty Co., Ltd609,150,489上海华新置业有限公司UOB Property China Co., Ltd.307,052,392优欧弼投资管理（上海）有限公司UOB Venture Management (Shanghai) 
Co., Ltd238,972,7462.01 645,654,9901.01252,349,1310.79247,431,703虎豹企业有限公司Haw Par Corporation Limited98,587,5270.3366,565,541新嘉置地（成都）发展有限公司庆隆（上海）投资管理有限公司泛太平洋（上海）酒店管理有限公司Singland (Chengdu) Development 
Co., Ltd.
Kheng Leong (Shanghai) Investment 
Management Co., Ltd.
Pan Pacific (Shanghai) Hotel 
Management Co., Ltd.御道津旅（天津）发展有限公司UIC Jin Travel (Tianjin) Co., Ltd.厦门虎标医药有限公司Xiamen Tiger Medicals Co., Ltd.华大（上海）信息科技有限公司天津华业希望房地产开发有限公司UOBBF Information Technology Pte 
Ltd.
Tianjin UOL Xiwang Real Estate Co., 
Ltd.华业（厦门）酒店有限公司Hua Ye Xiamen Hotel Limited华业商务咨询（上海）有限公司UOL Business Consulting (Shanghai) 
Co., Ltd.58,925,2758,088,3655,691,7145,644,2545,241,9672,733,6271,183,6691,083,156567,578上海锦骏置业有限公司Shanghai Jin Jun Realty Co., Ltd.1,547关键管理人员合计Key Management PersonnelTotal19,526,7971,362,451,1030.1924,723,0660.038,829,6890.020.020.02-5,678,4508,546,2960.012,623,410----654,7983,626,282857,319-0.0621,343,4304.49 1,288,884,1052.561.000.980.260.100.04-0.020.030.01-0.01--0.085.09应收利息Interest receivables31-12-2017余额
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)御道津旅（天津）发展有限公司 UIC JinTravel (Tianjin) Co., Ltd.大华银行有限公司United Overseas Bank Limited上海锦骏置业有限公司Shanghai Jin Jun Realty Co., Ltd.上海锦鹏置业有限公司Shanghai Jin Peng Realty Co., Ltd.合计Total572,594173,03930,262-775,895余额
Balance593,684--0.240.070.0131-12-2016占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)0.32--0.320.64-592,4570.321,186,141UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|149虎豹企业有限公司Haw Par Corporation Limited优欧弼投资管理（上海）有限公司UOB Venture Management (Shanghai) 
Co., Ltd.御道津旅（天津）发展有限公司 UIC JinTravel (Tianjin) Co., Ltd.新嘉置地（成都）发展有限公司Singland (Chengdu) Development 
Co., Ltd.厦门虎标医药有限公司Xiamen Tiger Medicals Co., Ltd.庆隆（上海）投资管理有限公司泛太平洋（上海）酒店管理有限公
司Kheng Leong (Shanghai) Investment 
Management Co., Ltd.
Pan Pacific (Shanghai) Hotel 
Management Co., Ltd.华大（上海）信息科技有限公司 UOBBF Information Technology Pte Ltd.华业（厦门）酒店有限公司Hua Ye Xiamen Hotel Limited天津华业希望房地产开发有限公司 Tianjin UOL Xiwang Real Estate Co., Ltd.华业商务咨询（上海）有限公司大华银行（泰国）有限公司UOL Business Consulting (Shanghai) Co., 
Ltd.
United Overseas Bank (Thai) Public 
Company Limited关键管理人员Key Management Personnel合计Total395,572390,27929,91120,5833,8461,0065832921291276121.210.770.130.130.010.01--------1,786,31764,04494,322575,42930,8378,47530419,970-2877027091164.840.620.020.030.200.01--0.01-----0.035.76应付利息Interest payables31-12-201731-12-2016余额 
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)余额 
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)大华银行有限公司United Overseas Bank Limited38,805,31013.0014,033,057上海华新置业有限公司UOB Property China Co., Ltd.3,613,960上海锦鹏置业有限公司Shanghai Jin Peng Realty Co., Ltd.2,305,04285,64345,652,3460.0387,54015.2916,701,461应收款项 - 其他应收款 Receivables- other Receivables31-12-201731-12-2016余额 
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)余额 
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)上海华新置业有限公司 UOB Property China Co., Ltd.大华银行有限公司United Overseas Bank Limited华大（上海）信息科    
技有限公司UOBBF Information Technology Pte 
Ltd.合计Total12,892,0481,914,124-14,806,1724.090.61-4.7012,892,0482,838,10914,81815,744,97521.554.740.0226.31应付款项 - 其他应付款 Payables - other payables31-12-201731-12-2016余额 
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)余额 
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)大华银行有限公司United Overseas Bank Limited36,601,10919.828,422,06711.10150 大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告|利息收入Interest income20172016金额 
Amount占同类交易金额比例
Contribution (%)金额 
Amount占同类交易金额比例
Contribution (%)大华银行有限公司United Overseas Bank Limited上海锦鹏置业有限公司 Shanghai Jin Peng Realty Co., Ltd.御道津旅（天津）发展有
限公司UIC JinTravel (Tianjin) Co., Ltd.上海锦骏置业有限公司 Shanghai Jin Jun Realty Co., Ltd.合计Total4,763,6354,113,1783,085,478612,67612,574,9670.290.250.190.040.773,542,99016,534,8221,344,432-21,422,244利息支出Interest expense20170.271.250.10-1.622016金额 
Amount占同类交易金额比例
Contribution (%)金额 
Amount占同类交易金额比例
Contribution (%)大华银行有限公司United Overseas Bank Limited242,521,76429.13116,970,363上海华新置业有限公司UOB Property China Co., Ltd.5,236,1470.634,806,575上海锦鹏置业有限公司Shanghai Jin Peng Realty Co., Ltd.4,975,6270.60507,655优欧弼投资管理（上海）有限公司UOB Venture Management 
(Shanghai) Co., Ltd.虎豹企业有限公司Haw Par Corporation Limited新嘉置地（成都）发展有限公司Singland (Chengdu) Development 
Co., Ltd.4,253,640587,295413,617御道津旅（天津）发展有限公司 UIC Jin Travel (Tianjin) Co., Ltd.100,061庆隆（上海）投资管理有限公司Kheng Leong (Shanghai) 
Investment Management Co., Ltd.华业（厦门）酒店有限公司Hua Ye Xiamen Hotel Limited厦门虎标医药有限公司Xiamen Tiger Medicals Co., Ltd.泛太平洋（上海）酒店管理有限公
司Pan Pacific (Shanghai) Hotel 
Management Co., Ltd.华大（上海）信息科技有限公司天津华业希望房地产开发有限公司华业商务咨询（上海）有限公司大华银行（泰国）有限公司UOBBF Information Technology 
Pte Ltd.Tianjin UOL Xiwang Real Estate 
Co., Ltd.
UOL Business Consulting 
(Shanghai) Co., Ltd.
United Overseas Bank (Thai) 
Public Company Limited上海锦骏置业有限公司Shanghai Jin Jun Realty Co., Ltd.UOB Holdings (USA) Inc.UOB Holdings (USA) Inc.78,75920,93615,90713,4408,9615,8552,128227347-0.514,360,6060.072,993,6160.050.010.01---------201,11032,30878,55865,22416,620-12,4633,1313,3646,386-159,424关键管理人员Key Management Personnel310,5600.04374,847合计Total258,545,27131.05130,592,25017.300.710.080.640.440.03-0.010.01------0.020.0619.30UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|151手续费及佣金收入Fee and commission income20172016金额 
Amount占同类交易金额比例
Contribution (%)金额 
Amount占同类交易金额比例
Contribution (%)大华银行有限公司United Overseas Bank Limited大华资产管理有限公司UOB Asset Management2,915,3622,693,158上海锦骏置业有限公司Shanghai Jin Jun Realty Co., Ltd.上海锦鹏置业有限公司Shanghai Jin Peng Realty Co., Ltd.御道津旅（天津）发展有限公司UIC JinTravel (Tianjin) Co., Ltd.厦门虎标医药有限公司Xiamen Tiger Medicals Co., Ltd.大华银行（泰国）有限公司United Overseas Bank  (Thai) Public 
Company Limited华业（厦门）酒店有限公司Hua Ye Xiamen Hotel Limited天津华业希望房地产开发有限公司 Tianjin UOL Xiwang Real Estate Co., Ltd.上海华新置业有限公司UOB Property China Co., Ltd.泛太平洋（上海）酒店管理有限公司Pan Pacific (Shanghai) Hotel Management 
Co., Ltd.华大（上海）信息科技有限公司UOBBF Information Technology Pte Ltd.新嘉置地（成都）发展有限公司Singland (Chengdu) Development Co., Ltd.华业商务咨询（上海）有限公司UOL Business Consulting (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.优欧弼投资管理（上海）有限公司 UOB Venture Management (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.虎豹企业有限公司Haw Par Corporation LimitedUOB Holdings (USA) Inc.UOB Holdings (USA) Inc.76,22675,53653,01916,8667,9637,4724,9562,2041,002606622814--1.94 2,276,6251.7934,5810.05-0.05 2,475,9320.045710.0117,3240.017,935----------16,5752,7392,064-1894,001241774,1081,061合计Total5,854,4743.89 4,843,906手续费及佣金支出Fee and commission expense20171.390.02-1.52-0.01-0.01--------2.952016金额 
Amount占同类交易金额比例
Contribution (%)金额 
Amount占同类交易金额比例
Contribution (%)大华银行有限公司United Overseas Bank Limited47,551业务及管理费General and administrative expenses87,3920.1320170.312016金额 
Amount占同类交易金额比例
Contribution (%)金额 
Amount占同类交易金额比例
Contribution (%)信息技术支持费IT support- 大华银行有限公司-United Overseas Bank Limited34,727,9733.9729,380,179房屋租金及服务费Rental and service fee- 上海华新置业有限公司-UOB Property China Co., Ltd.36,605,665- 大华银行有限公司-United Overseas Bank Limited- 华业（厦门）酒店有限公司 -Hua Ye Xiamen Hotel Limited合计Total885,015115,87472,334,5274.190.100.018.2717,047,550869,842115,87447,413,4453.612.090.110.015.82152 大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告|开发软件Software development20172016金额 
Amount占同类交易金额比例
Contribution (%)金额 
Amount占同类交易金额比例
Contribution (%)大华银行有限公司United Overseas Bank Limited12,128,43953.0920,111,75549.05受托业务Fiduciary activities31-12-201731-12-2016委托资金 
Entrusted deposits占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)委托资金 
Entrusted deposits占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)厦门虎标医药有限公司 Xiamen Tiger Medicals Co., Ltd.11,040,0000.4611,040,0000.61不可撤销的贷款承诺Irrevocable loan commitments31-12-201731-12-2016余额 
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)余额 
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)上海锦骏置业有限公司 Shanghai Jin Jun Realty Co., Ltd.254,149,72610.56275,000,000御道津旅（天津）发展
有限公司UIC JinTravel (Tianjin) Co., Ltd.28,000,000合计Total282,149,7261.1611.7228,000,000303,000,00011.521.1712.69衍生金融工具合约Derivatives31-12-201731-12-2016余额 
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)余额 
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)大华银行有限公司United Overseas Bank Limited33,139,208,426恒丰银行股份有限公司 Evergrowing Bank Co., Limited-合计Total33,139,208,4265.26-5.2615,902,422,5991,562,133,89917,464,556,4986.710.667.37UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITEDANNUAL REPORT 2017|153其他
本年度内，本公司作为经营租赁承租人向上海华新置业有限公司租
入办公用房，除已在附注十一、4 中列示的业务及管理费外，另支
付上海华新置业有限公司装修期间房屋租金人民币 3,256,352 元，确
认为长期待摊费用。本公司与上述关联方进行的交易根据正常的商业交易条件进行，以
一般交易价格为定价基础，并按正常业务程序进行。除上述交易外，本公司支付给关键管理人员薪金福利如下：Other transactions:
In 2017, apart from the general and administrative expense 
disclosed in Note 11.4, the Bank as a leasee under an office 
operating lease agreement with UOB Property China Co., 
Ltd. , paid UOB Property China Co., Ltd. rental amounting to 
RMB3,256,352 during the renovation period and the amount 
was recognised as long-term deferred expenses.Transactions  between  the  Bank  and  related  parties 
mentioned  above  are  carried  out  in  normal  course  of 
business and commercial terms and market price.Key  management  personnel’s  salaries  and  benefits  are  as 
follows:雇员薪金及其他短期福利 Employee salaries and other short-term benefits201763,626,561201659,010,469与本公司年金计划的交易情况如下：本公司与本年设立的企业年金基金除正常的供款业务外，本年未发
生其他关联交易。Transactions  between  the  Bank  and  the  annuity  are  as 
follows:No  transactions  other  than  normal  contribution  to  the 
annuity were conducted between the Bank and the annuity 
established by the Bank.十二、资产负债表日后事项12. Post balance sheet events截至本财务报表批准报出日止，本公司没有其他任何需作披露或调
整的重大资产负债表日后事项。As at the date on which the financial statements are approved, 
there is no material post balance sheet event that needs to 
be disclosed or adjusted by the Bank.十三、比较数据若干比较数据乃经过重新编排，以符合本年度之列报要求。十四、财务报表之批准本财务报表业经本公司董事会于 2018 年 3 月 23 日决议批准。13. Comparative amountsCertain comparative amounts have been adjusted to conform 
with the current year’s presentation.14. Approval of the financial statementsThe  financial  statements  were  approved  for  issue  by  the 
Board of Directors on 23 March 2018.154 大华银行（中国）有限公司 2017 年度报告|