大华银行（中国）有限公司
UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITED
2020 年度报告  | ANNUAL REPORT 2020共筑可持续未来
Forging a Sustainable Future《团结一致》
何姝
United We Stand
He Shu1目录
Contents02  大华银行中国简介About UOB China03  母行简介About United Overseas Bank Limited06  主要财务信息Financial Highlights07  董事长致辞Chairman's Statement13  公司信息Corporate Information14  监事17  董事会SupervisorBoard of Directors22  大华银行中国组织架构图UOB China Organisation Chart 202024  管理层报告2020 in Review46  公司治理60  风险管理80  重要事项81  营业网点Corporate GovernanceRisk ManagementImportant HighlightsBranch Network83  已审财务报表Audited Financial Statements《团结一致》何姝宣纸水墨
69 x 91 厘米今年年度报告的设计灵感源自画作《团结一致》。该作品荣获 2020 年大华银行年度绘画大赛（新加坡）资深画家组优等奖。
何姝女士的作品反映了人类在面临紧要关头，勇于战胜困难的精神力量，特别是在这一年新冠病毒疫情给全球带来巨大
冲击的艰难时刻。通过在逆境中盛开的胡姬花，何女士为我们展现了团结共进的力与美。振翅蝴蝶掀起远方巨浪，象征着来自最微小的努
力中孕育着最强有力的改变。正如画家所言：“在有变革之风兴起之处，我们将坚定不移地乘风踏浪，勇立变革潮头。
在这个瞬息万变的世界中快速地适应和学习，把焦虑化为行动，把废物化为能量，把挑战化为机遇。”同样，2020 年大华银行继续致力于共筑可持续发展之路，凭借我们久经考验的核心价值、稳健的资产负债表、健全的风
险管理和历久弥坚的创业根基，引领我们的客户、同事和社区携手渡过难关，迈向美好明天。作为亚洲艺术的坚守者，大华银行深切认识到艺术的力量和价值，它凝聚你我、疗愈人心，并为我们开启无限的可能。
大华银行年度绘画大赛至 2020 年已迈入第 39 届，目前在我行深耕的四个东南亚市场举办，是我行促进艺术发展的旗舰
项目。United We StandHe ShuChinese ink on rice paper69 x 91 cmUnited We Stand, a Highly Commended artwork of the 2020 UOB Painting of the Year (Singapore), Established Artist Category, is 
the design inspiration for this year's Annual Report. Ms He Shu's artwork reﬂects the strength of the human spirit in overcoming 
difﬁculties, especially in the tumultuous year that was beset by the global COVID-19 pandemic.Through the orchids blossoming in the harsh environment, Ms He plants in our minds the power and beauty of solidarity. The 
butterﬂies symbolise how the smallest effort can seed the biggest impact. In the words of the artist, "Where there are winds of 
change, we shall press on with great fortitude to ﬁnd new waves of transformation. Adapt and learn fast in this changing world, 
turn anxiety into action, turn waste into energy, turn challenges into opportunities."Likewise, in 2020, UOB continued to forge ahead sustainably, relying on our time-tested values, strong balance sheet, robust risk 
management approach and entrepreneurial roots to guide our customers, colleagues and the community through to better times.As the leading patron of art in Asia, UOB sees the value of art in its power to unify, to heal and to open us to possibilities. In its 39th 
year in 2020, the Bank's ﬂagship art programme, the UOB Painting of the Year competition, is currently held across four Southeast 
Asian markets in which UOB has a deep presence.21大华银行中国简介
About UOB China母行简介
About United Overseas Bank Limited大华银行（中国）有限公司（大华银行中国）是亚洲银行业翘楚——
大华银行有限公司（大华银行）的在华全资子公司，拥有中国本地
法人银行资格。大华银行中国于 2007 年 12 月 18 日注册成立，总部
设在上海。United Overseas Bank (China) Limited (UOB China) is a wholly-owned 
subsidiary of United Overseas Bank Limited (UOB), a leading bank in Asia. 
UOB China is headquartered in Shanghai and was incorporated in the 
People's Republic of China on 18 December 2007.自 1984 年，大华银行在北京开设了第一间办事处以来，大华银行中
国目前已在中国的主要城市拥有十余家分支机构。From our ﬁrst representative ofﬁce in Beijing in 1984, we have grown our 
network to 16 branches and sub-branches in major Chinese cities.我们不断加强在各方面的实力。2006 年，大华银行成为上海第一家
获批为客户处理资本账目的东南亚银行。2008 年，大华银行中国获
得了人民币零售业务牌照；2011 年获得了上海黄金交易所授予的在
华黄金交易会员资格；2012 年 7 月，大华银行中国获得合格境内机
构投资者（QDII）资格，12 月，又获得了银行间黄金询价资格，成
为首批获得此项资格的四家外资银行之一。2013 年，大华银行中国
成为第一批在中国获得本地基金代销执照的外资银行之一。2014 年，
大华银行中国设立上海自贸试验区支行，并成为首批获得银行间外
汇市场人民币对新元直接做市商资格及银行间黄金询价交易尝试做
市商资质的外资银行。2015 年，大华银行中国获得了黄金进出口的
行政许可。2018 年，大华银行中国获批成为首批人民币对泰铢直接交易做市商，
并成功发行了其三年期的金融债。这是银行间市场首单由东南亚银
行发行的境内“债券通”金融债。2019 年，大华银行中国成为上海期
货交易所第三家外资银行成员并成为“ 上海银”的集中定价会员，
2020 年，大华银行中国成为跨境人民币贸易融资资产转让平台首批
外资银行会员。这些都进一步扩展了大华银行在中国的业务。2015 年大华银行集团向大华银行中国增加资本金 25 亿元人民币，总
注册资本金达到 55 亿元人民币。目前，大华银行中国的综合财务实
力获惠誉 A+ 评级，中诚信 AAA 极，评级展望均为稳定。作为一家严谨负责的金融服务机构，我们致力为广大利益相关方和
营运所在社区带来改变生活的正能量。我们不仅全力以赴协助客户
合理管理个人财富和帮助企业取得业务增长，同时也坚定不移地在
艺术、儿童和教育三大领域推动社会发展。欲了解更多信息， 
请登陆大华银行中国的官方网站：www.UOBChina.com.cn 或 
关注大华银行中国官方微信（账号名称：大华银行中国）。2We have also been building on our strengths. In 2006, UOB was the 
first bank from Southeast Asia authorised to settle capital accounts in 
Shanghai. We received a retail Renminbi (RMB) licence and Shanghai Gold 
Exchange (SGE) trading membership in 2008 and 2011 respectively. In 2012, 
we were awarded a Qualified Domestic Institutional Investors licence, 
and were one of four foreign banks to participate in bullion trading on 
the SGE interbank platform. UOB China is one of the ﬁrst foreign banks 
to obtain a local mutual fund licence in China in 2013. The following 
year, we established a sub-branch in the Shanghai Pilot Free Trade Zone 
and obtained a trial market maker licence for interbank gold bilateral 
transactions and a market maker licence for direct trading between RMB 
and the Singapore dollar in the interbank foreign exchange market. We 
also obtained the gold import and export licence in 2015.In 2018, UOB China became one the ﬁrst market makers to execute direct 
trading between the RMB and the Thai Baht. The Bank also successfully 
priced its three-year onshore RMB financial bond through the China 
interbank market and the Bond Connect scheme (BCS), which is the ﬁrst 
onshore ﬁnancial bond issued by a Southeast Asian bank through the BCS. 
In 2019, UOB China became the ﬁrst Southeast Asia-headquartered bank 
to be a member of the Shanghai Futures Exchange and the first foreign 
bank to be a Fixing Member for the Shanghai Silver Benchmark Price. UOB 
China also became one of the ﬁrst foreign bank members of the Cross-
border RMB Trade Finance Trading Platform in 2020. These achievements 
have enabled us to widen our products and service offerings to our 
customers operating in China.In 2015, UOB Group increased the registered capital of UOB China by 
RMB2.5 billion to RMB5.5 billion. UOB China is rated 'A+' with a stable 
outlook by Fitch Ratings and 'AAA' with a stable outlook by China Cheng 
Xin International.We believe in being a responsible ﬁnancial services provider and we are 
committed to making a difference in the lives of our stakeholders and in 
the communities in which we operate. Just as we are dedicated to helping 
our customers manage their ﬁnances wisely and to grow their businesses, 
UOB China is steadfast in our support of social development, particularly 
in the areas of art, children and education.For more information about UOB China,  
please visit www.UOBChina.com.cn or  
follow the UOB China's public account on WeChat.我们的机构Who We Are大华银行有限公司（大华银行）是亚洲主要银行，拥有超过 500 间
分行及办事处的环球业务网，分布在亚太、欧洲与北美的 19 个国家
和地区。在亚洲，大华银行通过新加坡总行和在中国、印度尼西亚、
马来西亚、泰国及越南的附属银行以及各地分行和办事处，开展广
泛的金融业务。1935 年，全球还处于经济大萧条后的不确定期，大华银行开业为新
加坡的商业社群提供银行服务。从此，大华银行通过自身发展和一系列的战略收购行动不断壮大。
如今大华银行获评为世界顶尖银行之一：穆迪给予“Aa1”评级，标普
全球评级和惠誉分别给予“AA-”评级。在过去的超过 80 年里，一代代大华银行职员秉承开拓进取的精神，
以创造长远价值为目标，勇于担当，对所有利益相关方始终诚挚如一，
信守相伴。在大华银行，我们矢志做严谨负责的金融服务机构，致力为营运所
在的社区创造改变生活的正能量。正如我们全力以赴协助客户明智
管理他们的财务和取得业务成长，大华银行也坚定不移地支持社会
发展，并将推动艺术、帮助儿童成长及促进教育作为重点。我们的业务大华银行通过集团零售银行业务、集团机构银行服务及环球金融三
个核心业务部门，在全球提供全面的金融服务： 个人消费者银行服
务、私人银行服务、商业银行服务、交易银行服务、投资银行服务
与外汇资金服务。通过各个附属公司，我们也提供资产管理、私募
基金管理及保险服务。United Overseas Bank Limited (UOB) is a leading bank in Asia with a 
global network of more than 500 branches and ofﬁces in 19 countries and 
territories in Asia Paciﬁc, Europe and North America. In Asia, we operate 
through our head office in Singapore and banking subsidiaries in China, 
Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand and Vietnam, as well as branches and ofﬁces 
across the region.In 1935, amid the economic uncertainties following the Great Depression, 
UOB opened its doors to provide banking services for the merchant 
community in Singapore.Since then, UOB has grown organically and through a series of strategic 
acquisitions. Today, UOB is rated among the world's top banks: 'Aa1' by Moody's 
Investors Service and 'AA-' by both S&P Global Ratings and Fitch Ratings.Over more than eight decades, generations of UOB employees have 
carried through the entrepreneurial spirit, the focus on long-term value 
creation and an unwavering commitment to doing what is right for our 
stakeholders.At UOB, we believe in being a responsible financial services provider and 
we are committed to making a difference in the communities in which we 
operate. Just as we are dedicated to helping our customers manage their 
ﬁnances wisely and grow their businesses, we are steadfast in our support of 
social development, particularly in the areas of art, children and education.What We DoUOB provides a wide range of ﬁnancial services globally through our three 
core business segments – Group Retail, Group Wholesale Banking and 
Global Markets. Our offering includes consumer banking, private banking, 
commercial banking, transaction banking, investment banking and treasury 
services. Through our subsidiaries, we also provide asset management, 
private equity fund management and insurance services.3母行简介
About United Overseas Bank Limited我们的营运所在
Where We Operate>500大华银行在亚太、欧洲和北美地区拥有超
过500家分行及办事处。
branches and offices in Asia Pacific, Europe 
and North America3
加拿大
Canada3
美国
USA1
英国
United
 
Kingdom1
法国
FranceAsia新加坡 Singapore  
马来西亚 Malaysia  
印度尼西亚 Indonesia  
泰国 Thailand  
文莱 Brunei  
菲律宾 Philippines  
缅甸 Myanmar  
越南 Vietnam  
中国内地（大陆）Mainland China  
中国香港 Hong Kong  
中国台湾 Taiwan  
日本 Japan  
韩国 South Korea  
印度 India73
49
176
153
2
1
2
5
22
3
2
2
1
242
澳大利亚
Australia5主要财务信息
Financial Highlights经营成果Operating result人民币千元 RMB'00020202019Increase
(Decrease)%营业收入合计Total operating income1,433,5521,360,5645.4营业费用Total operating expenses1,052,4841,083,036资产减值损失Impairment charges税前利润资产负债资产总计财务指标Proﬁt before taxBalance sheetTotal assetsFinancial indicators净资产利润率Return on equity267,602107,214141,314136,729人民币千元 RMB'00080,487,54371,856,288%1.6%1.8资产利润率成本收入比Return on average total assets0.10.2Expenses/income ratio72.478.6手续费及佣金净收入比总收入 Net fee and  commission income/total10.012.6operating income(2.8)89.4(21.6)%12.0%(0.2)(0.1)(6.2)(2.6)存贷比（人民币）Loan-to-Deposit ratio（RMB）95.088.16.9杠杆率不良贷款率拨备覆盖率贷款拨备率Leverage ratio7.07.7Non-performing loan ratio0.40.6(0.7)(0.2)Non-performing loan coverage ratio664.1348.5315.6Provision-to-loan ratio2.42.20.2资本充足率指标Capital adequacy ratio核心一级资本充足率Core Tier 1 CAR13.413.5一级资本充足率资本充足率Tier 1 CARTotal CAR13.413.516.416.5(0.1)(0.1)(0.1)董事长致辞
Chairman's Statement2020 年可谓是转折之年。新型冠状病毒肺炎的疫情席卷全球，夺去
很多人的生命，给经济造成巨大影响，也转变了我们工作和生活的
方式。前方从未像当前这样充满复杂的不确定性。身处“常态化”的疫情中，大华银行依然坚持我们对客户的承诺，帮
助企业客户顺利开展业务，满足个人客户的财务目标和生活方式需
求。我们坚信，只有同客户共沐风雨、信守相伴，才能迎来前方的
曙光。2020  was  a  transformational  year.  The  COVID-19  pandemic,  which 
escalated to a humanitarian crisis and sadly resulted in the loss of many 
lives globally, also disrupted businesses and altered our ways of life. The 
future never looked as uncertain.Through this tumultuous period, we at UOB have continued in our role to 
help our customers build their businesses and attain their ﬁnancial goals 
and lifestyle needs. We have long believed in standing right by them to 
weather crises.积极应对新冠肺炎疫情疫情爆发后，我行积极响应国家支持企业抗疫、保障实体经济发展
的政策号召，基于自身财务实力，有序采取了一系列纾困措施，以
帮助企业应对疫情所带来的前所未有的挑战。例如，我行积极与客
户沟通资金使用需求事宜，对有流动性困难的企业予以贷款展期，
并协助企业规划资金。这些措施持续数月，直至相关企业顺利复工
复产，实现稳定运营。COVID-19 responseIn response to the Chinese government's COVID-19 pandemic control 
and relief policies, we deployed our strong balance sheet judiciously to 
support our corporate clients, providing relief assistance to tide them 
through unprecedented financial challenges. Our relationship managers 
actively engaged our clients, working closely with those who faced 
liquidity difﬁculties to ensure that their ﬁnancial needs were met through 
additional funding or loan tenor extensions. Such support measures were 
offered until the middle of the year at which time our clients' ﬁnancial 
situation largely stabilised.67董事长致辞
Chairman's Statement为客户提供更好的支持的基础是确保员工的健康安全。疫情爆发初
期，配合国家政策要求，在不影响服务质量和安全风险管理的前提下，
我们启动了居家办公的安排，并逐步实施灵活错峰办公和分批办公，
以保障员工安全。复工后，我行结合抗击疫情的部署要求推出一系
列防疫措施，如：每日健康打卡、居家办公、发放防疫用品、提供
上门核酸检测服务、定期推送健康贴士等。此外，我行推出了全新
的员工关爱计划 – Care U，为员工及家属提供全天候的心理咨询服务，
关爱他们在特殊时期的身心健康。我们也积极行动，助力有需求的社区人群共同抗击新冠疫情，包括
在疫情初期防护资源紧张之时，向湖北省在内的六省市的一线工作
者以及有需求的单位和社区，捐赠 10 万只一次性医用外科口罩，以
及资助湖北荆州小学实验幼儿园 31 台等离子体空气消毒机。当前全世界正在积极应对疫情所带来的严峻挑战。这一刻，我们更
需要精神上的正能量来点亮心灵，照亮彼此。因此，我行于 2020 年
继续推出“大华银行艺术季”，开展一系列线上线下项目，让艺术的
力量和温暖走入千家万户。2020 年财务业绩2020 年，我行营业收入同比增长了 5.4% 至人民币 14.3 亿元，主要得
益于净利息收入的双位数增长。Taking care of our customers required that we take care of our people 
ﬁrst. As soon as China announced pandemic control measures, we enabled 
work-from-home arrangements without compromising the quality of our 
customer service or our robust risk management and security standards. 
We implemented staggered work hours and split teams to keep our 
services running while also protecting our people. After resuming full 
operations, we ensured that safe management measures were enforced 
including daily health monitoring and providing personal protective gear 
and on-site nucleic acid testing. Through Care U, our newly-launched 
employee welfare programme, we offered mental health support to our 
colleagues and their family members.We also stepped up our community efforts, including providing 100,000 
surgical face masks to frontline service workers in six provinces and cities 
across China and 31 HEPA filters to students in Hubei Province when 
personal protective gear was in critical and short supply at the beginning 
of the pandemic.As the world continues to battle COVID-19, people needed art more than 
ever to inspire resilience, solidarity and creativity and to promote mental 
well-being. In this spirit, we hosted, for the second year, our UOB Art 
Season which encompassed several virtual and physical programmes to 
make art accessible to all.受益于存款结构调整带来的净息差上升，我行净利息收入同比增长
18.9%，至人民币 9.9 亿元。Financial performance in 2020营业支出同比下降了 2.8% 至人民币 10.5 亿元，主要由于员工成本以
及业务相关费用的下降。资产减值损失上升至 2.7 亿元以积极应对
市场环境的不确定性。2020 年税后净利润为人民币 1.1 亿元，较 2019
年同比下降 12.6%。2020 年贷款规模上升 3.0% 至人民币 362 亿元，年末存款规模为人民
币 365 亿元。我行的资产质量保持稳定，不良贷款率从上年末的 0.6%
下降至 2020 年末的 0.4%。我们密切监控资产组合，并对我行的资产
质量和拨备充足性有着充分的信心。截止 2020 年 12 月 31 日，我行的核心一级资本充足率和总资本充足
率分别为 13.4% 和 16.4%，远高于最低监管要求。目前，大华银行中国的综合财务实力获惠誉 A+ 及展望稳定评级，以
及中诚信 AAA 及展望稳定的评级。In 2020, we achieved operating income of RMB1,433.6 million, up 5.4 per 
cent from last year, driven by double-digit growth in net interest income.Net interest income rose 18.9 per cent from a year ago to RMB991.6 
million, attributed to improved interest margins from deposit restructure.Total operating expenses decreased by 2.8 per cent to RMB1,052.5 million, 
mainly from the decline in staff costs and business-related expenses. 
Impairment charges increased to RMB267.6 million as we proactively made 
provisions to ensure adequate credit coverage. We registered net proﬁt 
after tax of RMB108.7 million, a decrease of 12.6 per cent from 2019.Loans grew by 3.0 per cent to RMB36.2 billion and deposits were RMB36.5 
billion as at 31 December 2020. Our asset quality remained stable. The 
non-performing loan ratio declined to 0.4 per cent from 0.6 per cent a 
year ago. We monitor our portfolio vigilantly and are confident of the 
resilience of our asset quality and adequacy of our provisions.As at 31 December 2020, our Common Equity Tier 1 and Total Capital 
Adequacy Ratio stood at 13.4 per cent and 16.4 per cent respectively, well 
above the regulatory minimum requirements.We were rated A+ by Fitch Ratings and AAA with a stable outlook by 
China Chengxin International Credit Rating.8推动长期战略性增长Driving long-term strategic growth2020 年，面对前所未见的挑战，我们坚持以客户为中心的发展战略。Amid the unprecedented challenges of 2020, we persevered with our 
customer-focused regional strategy.我们有计划地聚焦在三大战略领域投入，以实现业务可持续增长，
包括：1.  提升跨境业务和互联互通，助推中国与东南亚的经贸往来
2.  依托中国金融开放的契机，推出创新跨境解决方案
3.  坚持以客户为中心，推进业务转型Through our well-timed and paced investments, we are focusing on areas 
that will continue to drive our sustainable growth in China:1.  Supporting  surging  economic  flows  and  increased  connectivitybetween ASEAN and China;2.  Creating progressive cross-border solutions for companies tapping提升跨境业务和互联互通，助推中国与东南亚的经贸往来China's continued ﬁnancial liberalisation; and地缘政治局势持续影响着亚洲。2020 年伴随着全球经济状况的两极
分化加剧，中国与东盟之间的贸易往来也逆势增长。东盟成为中国
第一大贸易合作伙伴，双方进出口额同比增长 7%。相较众多同业而言，大华银行在东盟拥有最广泛的网络分布。我们
在东盟各国间以及与中国的业务联动，令我们可以帮助客户抓住更
多的区域发展机遇。我们不断加大自身能力的投入，例如我们的外
国直接投资咨询业务，进而为客户提供其所需的本地的市场见解和
网络资源。同时，我们在整个区域内强化了对公业务策略和行业专长，
并着眼于七个具有经济前景的行业以及具有责任心且有可持续增长
潜力的企业客户。例如，我们在 2020 年深化了与一家全球领先的工程机械制造商以及
一大型电力工程企业的银企合作关系，支持他们在中国和东盟市场
的发展需求。我行还与长三角一家领先的高科技企业和一家国内知
名矿产龙头企业分别签署了合作备忘录，为他们提供定制化的金融
解决方案，助其把握市场机遇。自《粤港澳大湾区发展规划纲要》发布后，大湾区企业跨境交易和
融资日益增长。得益于我行在大湾区的战略布局以及东盟的一体化
网络，我们能够助力大湾区之内以及大湾区与东南亚之间不断活跃
的商贸活动。2020 年，我行特别针对大湾区商业银行部客户推出“跨
境快速支付”活动以满足大湾区日益增长的资金跨境流动的便利化
需求。3.  Taking a customer-centric approach to transform our business.Supporting  surging  economic  flows  and  increased  connectivity 
between ASEAN and China
Geopolitical tensions continue to reshape Asia. Global fault lines and 
the bifurcation of the global economy worsened in 2020, reinforcing the 
link between ASEAN's future and China's increasing economic inﬂuence. 
ASEAN became China's largest trading partner in 2020, recording a seven 
per cent growth year on year.Within ASEAN, UOB has the most extensive regional network among our 
peers. Our connectivity within ASEAN and with China enables us to help 
our clients seize regional opportunities. Our investments in capabilities 
such as a dedicated foreign direct investment advisory team enable us to 
combine deep market knowledge with access to key local connections. 
Across the region, we have sharpened our Wholesale Banking strategy 
and sector specialisation capabilities to focus on seven sectors that drive 
intra-regional economic ﬂows and on players we think will contribute to 
responsible, sustainable growth.For example, in 2020 we deepened our business relationship with a 
world-leading construction machinery manufacturer and supported a 
large leading Chinese contractor in power generation and transmission 
infrastructure in its business development in China and ASEAN. We also 
signed  Memoranda  of  Understanding  with  a  high-technology  client 
based in the Yangtze River Delta and one of China's leading gold mining 
companies to offer them tailored ﬁnancial services and solutions to seize 
regional growth opportunities.Another growth opportunity is the Greater Bay Area (GBA), one of the fastest 
growing regions in China and one which counts ASEAN as its biggest trading 
partner. Since the release of Outline of the Development Plan for the GBA, 
cross-border ﬁnancing and investment have increased with greater integration 
of the region. Given our strong ASEAN network and deep local presence, we 
are well-placed to help facilitate business ﬂows within the GBA and with the 
GBA's connections regionally. For example, in 2020 we launched our Cross-
Border Fast Payment service to commercial banking clients of UOB China and 
UOB Hong Kong with a presence in the GBA to fulﬁl their increasing needs in 
cross-border liquidity management.9董事长致辞
Chairman's Statement推出创新跨境解决方案
伴随金融开放脚步加快和“一带一路”倡议的深入展开，市场也涌现
了越来越多元化、多层次的跨境金融需求。我行也积极联动集团区
域网络、深化本地业务，为企业提供更高效的创新跨境金融解决方案。例如，2020 年借助上海临港新片区的金融开放与创新发展政策，我
行与客户共同探索，顺利落地新片区内本外币一体化跨境资金池结
构。大华银行中国还成为了跨境人民币贸易融资转让服务平台首批
外资银行会员并在平台上线当天完成首批交易。同时，我们进一步
完善和丰富“东南亚货币一站式”服务，帮助企业优化了汇兑效率，
增强了国际议价能力，收获企业和业界好评，并荣膺上海市政府所
授予的上海金融创新成果奖三等奖。坚持以客户为中心推进业务转型
大华银行在深耕中国市场的 37 年间，我们的服务团队始终以客户需
求为导向，为客户提供互联互通的金融服务。这是大华银行进入中
国的初衷，也是未来我行在华长期发展的基石。秉承这一信念，我们继续推动业务转型，其中包括继续聚焦七大产业，
并对 13 家分行进行了精准化定位，以更好为本地和区域内的企业客
户提供更具行业针对性和远见的业务咨询、产品和服务。同时我行
继续推动零售业务转型，通过专注核心市场，以数字化赋能，打造
诚挚信赖的财富管理服务。同时，我们不断与实力雄厚的国内机构、银行和企业建立了合作伙
伴关系，拓宽服务渠道，共谋发展。2020 年基于大华银行与战略合
作伙伴恒丰银行不断深入的合作关系，我们共同推出大华—恒丰“国
际贸易直通车”，助力企业开展跨境业务，促进中国与东盟地区之间
的国际贸易结算。我们坚信，这些业务转型将有效提升客户服务和体验，进一步维护
与客户长久的业务关系。Creating progressive cross-border solutions
With China continuing to liberalise its ﬁnancial sector and its deepening 
of the Belt and Road Initiative, Chinese enterprises have an increasing 
demand for sound ﬁnancial solutions. Drawing on the strengths of UOB's 
regional network and local understanding, we create progressive solutions 
to support cross-border businesses in a more efﬁcient way.In 2020, following the expansion of Shanghai Pilot Free Trade Zone to 
include the Lin-Gang Special Area, we tapped the new policies to launch 
our ﬁrst multi-currency cross-border cash pool. We also became one of 
the first foreign bank members of the Cross-Border RMB Trade Finance 
Trading Platform and completed the ﬁrst deal on the platform on launch 
day. Our expanded ASEAN Currency One-stop Service has helped many 
corporate clients optimise their foreign exchange efficiencies, which in 
turn has enhanced their bargaining power in international business. We 
also won the third prize at the Shanghai Financial Innovation Awards by 
the Shanghai Municipal People's Government.Taking a customer-centric approach to transform our business
Since establishing our presence in mainland China 37 years ago, we have 
taken a customer-centric approach to building our business, offering 
our customers ﬁnancial services and creating opportunities for them to 
connect and to grow their personal wealth and businesses. Our duty of 
care to our customers has always been our priority and will continue to 
play a critical role in our long-term growth.As such, we continued to transform our business by sharpening our sector 
focus and redeﬁning the roles of our 13 branches in China to provide our 
corporate clients with more targeted, in-depth insights, solutions and 
services. To address our afﬂuent and high-net-worth customers' needs for 
digital services and personalised wealth management advisory, we also 
continued with the strategic development of our retail business, focusing 
on our key markets and deepening our digital capabilities.We continued to forge strategic partner ecosystems to facilitate our 
customer acquisition and to widen the range of services we offer to our 
customers. In 2020, as part of the strategic collaboration between UOB 
and Hengfeng Bank, we jointly launched the one-stop trade service to 
help more Chinese companies tap cross-border opportunities and to 
facilitate the increasing China-ASEAN business and trade ﬂows.We believe the transformation of our business will enhance the customer 
experience so that we will continue to build and to maintain enduring 
relationships with them.10激发“内生”人才动力Growing our own timber人才是我们最珍贵的资产。我们认真践行对于人才的承诺，帮助员
工实现职业与个人的发展。People are our greatest asset. We take our duty of care to them very 
seriously and focus on their professional and personal fulﬁlment.我行坚信“内生”人才的力量，因此，我们提供一系列培训和领导力
发展项目，帮助我们的员工更好把握自己的职业发展路径，打造业
务所需的人才。这些项目包括大中华区领导力发展项目、高潜质人
才发展项目、跨部门导师学习项目和管理培训生项目。我们也积极帮助员工拓展技能，让业务可以走得更快、更远。2020 年，
我行正式推出由大华银行集团自主开发的名为 Better U 的全面技能
进阶计划，帮助同事们掌握五项未来职业发展所需的技能，截至年底，
已有 735 位同事完成了这一计划。发力中国市场就像年报封面《团结一致》中所绘制的逆境中坚韧绽放的胡姬花，
2021 年，疫情的阴霾渐散，复苏的曙光初现。尽管在不确定之中前行，中国始终引领经济复苏，并将 2021 年经济
增长目标定在 6% 以上。“十四五”规划蓝图正在展开，双循环经济也
为增长提供了源源动力。《区域全面经济伙伴关系协定》（RCEP）
等互联互通倡议，将进一步推动跨境投资和贸易的增长。这些都将为大华银行和我们的客户提供巨大的机遇。大华银行中国凭借实力和韧性，经受住了疫情的考验。我们将继续
秉持诚信、进取、齐心和担当的价值观，继续帮助企业实现可持续
发展，帮助消费者实现财富的可持续增长，共筑和谐社会与环境的
可持续未来。为此，我们会致力于提升自身竞争力，帮助企业连接更多跨境商机，
推进业务转型以更好地服务客户不断变化的需求，继续加大人才投
入以确保员工紧跟数字化时代的步伐。我们相信亚洲的未来是无限
光明的，而且我们已蓄势待发，准备和客户与同事们共同迎接更好
的未来。We  believe  in  growing  our  own  timber.  We  open  up  opportunities 
for our people to progress on their chosen career paths and develop 
talents  that  our  business  needs,  through  training  and  leadership 
development initiatives. These include the Greater China Leadership 
Academy, Leadership Acceleration Programme, Cross-Function Mentoring 
Programme and Management Associate Programme.We also deepen our talent pool by welcoming those with specialist skills to 
help us build our business further and faster. In 2020, we ofﬁcially launched 
Better U, UOB's Group-wide upskilling holistic learning and development 
programme to equip colleagues with the knowledge and skills in ﬁve areas 
to stay relevant in the future. By the end of the year, 735 colleagues had 
successfully completed the Better U foundation programme.Emerging strongerEarly green shoots of recovery can be seen in 2021, just like the orchid 
blossoming amid the difﬁcult terrain in the cover painting, United We Stand.In  the  face  of  uncertainty,  China  continues  to  pursue  economic 
development with a target growth rate of above six per cent for 2021. 
To realise its goal, the country is rolling out its 14th Five-Year Plan and 
continues to build its Dual-Circulation economy. Regional connectivity 
initiatives such as the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership, the 
world's largest free trade agreement, will further boost inter-regional and 
intra-regional trade and investment activities.These  trends  present  tremendous  opportunities  for  UOB  and  our 
customers.For UOB China, we entered the crisis from a position of strength and have 
proven resilient. Guided by our values of Honour, Enterprise, Unity and 
Commitment, we will continue to help businesses to advance responsibly, 
to steer wealth to sustainable investments and to foster social inclusion 
and environmental well-being.We remain committed to strengthening our competitive advantages and 
connecting our customers to opportunities across the region. We will 
continue to transform our businesses to address our customers' changing 
needs. To ensure our colleagues continue to thrive in a future dominated 
and determined by data and digital services, we will keep investing in their 
capabilities. We believe the future of Asia and its people is bright and we 
stand ready to help our customers and colleagues prosper in the better 
times ahead.11董事长致辞
Chairman's Statement致谢Acknowledgements在此，我要感谢大华银行中国所有同事。感谢大家在这不平凡的一
年团结一致、信守承诺，为客户和彼此提供了最坚实有力的支持，
充分展现了我行应有的担当。我也要感谢董事会在面临前所未有的
挑战之时，一如既往地对管理层给予信任与支持。I  thank  everyone  at  UOB  China  for  all  their  efforts  in  2020.  Your 
commitment and unity in helping our customers and one another in the 
most trying of times exemplify what is core to the Bank. I would also 
like to thank the Board for its steadfast support and confidence in the 
management team throughout this year of unprecedented challenges.黄一宗大华银行（中国）有限公司董事长
2021 年 3 月Wee Ee CheongChairman
March 2021公司信息
Corporate Information法定名称
大华银行（中国）有限公司法定代表人
黄一宗Registered Name
United Overseas Bank (China) LimitedLegal Representative
Wee Ee Cheong注册地址
上海市浦东新区银城路 116 号、128 号大华银行大厦三层、五层 501 室（实际四
层）、十三层（实际十二层）、十五层（实际十三层）、十六层（实际十四层）、
十七层（实际十五层）、十八层（实际十六层）、十九层（实际十七层）、
二十层（实际十八层） 
邮政编码：200120
电话 : (86) (21) 6061 8888
传真 : (86) (21) 6886 0908
SWIFT：UOVBCNSH
网址：UOBChina.com.cnRegistered Ofﬁce
Floor 3, Room 501 of Floor 5 (Actual Floor 4), Floor 13 (Actual Floor 12), Floor 15 
(Actual Floor 13), Floor 16 (Actual Floor 14), Floor 17 (Actual Floor 15), Floor 18 
(Actual Floor 16), Floor 19 (Actual Floor 17) and Floor 20 (Actual Floor 18), No 116 
and No 128, Yincheng Road, Pudong New Area 
Shanghai 200120 
Tel: (86) (21) 6061 8888
Fax: (86) (21) 6886 0908
SWIFT: UOVBCNSH
Website: UOBChina.com.cn公司成立日期
2007 年 12 月 18 日登记机关
上海市市场监督管理局企业法人统一社会信用代码
913100006694147236注册资本
人民币 550,000 万元股东 ( 发起人 )
大华银行有限公司公司类型
有限责任公司（外国法人独资）监事
黄祖耀
詹道存 ( 副监事 )董事会
黄一宗 ( 董事长 )
符懋赞 ( 行长兼首席执行官 )
叶杨诗明
刘二飞 
吴玉华执行委员会
黄一宗 ( 主席 )
符懋赞 
叶杨诗明提名及薪酬委员会
刘二飞（主席）
黄一宗
叶杨诗明
吴玉华审计委员会
刘二飞（主席）
叶杨诗明
吴玉华关联交易控制委员会
吴玉华（主席）
叶杨诗明
刘二飞董事会风险管理委员会
叶杨诗明 ( 主席 ) 
刘二飞
吴玉华审计师
安永华明会计师事务所（特殊普通合伙）上海分所Date of Incorporation
18 December 2007Registration Authority
Shanghai Administration for Market RegulationUniﬁed Social Credit Code 
913100006694147236Paid Up Share Capital
RMB 5,500,000,000Shareholder (Founder)
United Overseas Bank LimitedType of Company
Limited Company (Wholly Foreign-owned)Supervisors
Wee Cho Yaw
Cham Tao Soon (Deputy Supervisor)Board of Directors
Wee Ee Cheong (Chairman)
Peter Foo Moo Tan (President and CEO)
Christine Ip
Liu Erh Fei 
Wu Yu HuaExecutive Committee
Wee Ee Cheong (Chairman)
Peter Foo Moo Tan 
Christine IpNominating and Remuneration Committee
Liu Erh Fei  (Chairman)
Wee Ee Cheong
Christine Ip
Wu Yu HuaAudit Committee
Liu Erh Fei (Chairman) 
Christine Ip
Wu Yu HuaConnected Transactions Control Committee
Wu Yu Hua (Chairman) 
Christine Ip
Liu Erh FeiBoard Risk Management Committee
Christine Ip (Chairman) 
Liu Erh Fei
Wu Yu HuaAuditors
Ernst & Young Hua Ming (LLP) Shanghai Ofﬁce1213监事
Supervisor黄祖耀Wee Cho Yaw监事Supervisor92 岁，自 2007 年 10 月 30 日起担任大华银行（中
国）的监事。黄博士是一位拥有 60 多年经验的杰出银行
家，他在银行、保险、房地产及酒店业都拥
有丰富经验。由于他的商业成就及对教育事
业、社区福利及商界的支持，他被授予多个
国家和地区的奖项和荣誉。黄博士是大华银行（泰国）的董事会主席以
及新加坡大华银行及大华银行（马来西亚）
的荣誉主席兼名誉顾问。Dr  Wee,  92,  was  appointed  as  Supervisor  of 
United Overseas Bank (China) on 30 October 
2007.A  distinguished  banker  with  more  than  60 
years'  experience,  Dr  Wee  is  a  veteran  in  the 
banking, insurance, real estate and hospitality 
industries. He was conferred numerous awards 
and accolades at the national and regional level 
for his business achievements and support of 
education, community welfare and the business 
community.黄博士现任新加坡上市公司大华保险、华业
集团、联合工业及虎豹企业的董事会主席。
他同时也是泛太平洋酒店集团、滨海中心控
股及黄氏基金的董事会主席。Dr Wee is the Chairman of United Overseas Bank 
(Thai) Public Company and the Chairman Emeritus 
and Honorary Adviser of United Overseas Bank 
and also of United Overseas Bank (Malaysia).He is the current Chairman of United Overseas 
Insurance,  UOL  Group,  United  Industrial 
Corporation  and  Haw  Par  Corporation  all  of 
which  are  public  companies  listed  on  the 
Singapore  Stock  Exchange.  He  also  serves  as 
Chairman of Pan Pacific Hotels Group, Marina 
Centre Holdings and Wee Foundation.黄博士是中正中学的校友及董事会主席。他
曾任职于多家学校管理委员会及南洋大学和
新加坡国立大学理事会。他目前担任南洋理
工大学的名誉副校长。新加坡国立大学和南
洋理工大学都授予他荣誉文学博士学位。黄博士的其他职务包括新加坡中华总商会、
新加坡宗乡会馆联合总会及新加坡福建会馆
的名誉会长。黄博士于 2001 年和 1990 年两度荣获新加坡
商业颁奖礼“年度杰出商人奖”。他于 2006
年荣获首届“瑞信—安永终身成就奖”。2009
年，《亚洲银行家》授予其终身成就奖。为
了表彰黄博士在商界的杰出成就，2017 年他
获颁“亚细安商业奖”的传承奖。此外，黄博士获新加坡总统颁发象征新加坡最高
荣耀的新加坡国庆“殊功勋章”（2011 年度），
以表彰其对新加坡经济、教育和社区发展的
杰出贡献。Dr  Wee  is  an  alumni  and  Chairman  of  Chung 
Cheng High School. He has served on numerous 
school  management  committees  and  the 
Councils of the Nanyang University and National 
University of Singapore (NUS). He is currently a 
Pro-Chancellor of the Nanyang Technological 
University  (NTU).  Both  NUS  and  NTU  have 
conferred  on  him  their  Honorary  Doctor  of 
Letters degree.His other commitments include appointment as 
the Honorary President of the Singapore Chinese 
Chamber of Commerce & Industry, Singapore 
Federation  of  Chinese  Clan  Associations  and 
Singapore Hokkien Huay Kuan.Dr  Wee  was  named  Businessman  of  the  Year 
twice at the Singapore Business Awards in 2001 
and  1990.  He  received  the  inaugural  Credit 
Suisse-Ernst  &  Young  Lifetime  Achievement 
Award in 2006 and The Asian Banker Lifetime 
Achievement Award in 2009. In recognition of his 
business achievements in the region, Dr Wee was 
conferred the Legacy Award for Singapore at the 
ASEAN Business Awards 2017.Dr Wee received the Distinguished Service Order, 
Singapore's highest National Day Award for 2011 
from the President of Singapore in recognition of 
his outstanding contributions to the economic, 
education, social and community development 
ﬁelds in Singapore.1415副监事
Deputy Supervisor詹道存Cham Tao Soon副监事Deputy Supervisor81 岁，自 2017 年 1 月 1 日起担任大华银行（中
国）副监事之职。詹教授曾于 2008 年至 2016
年期间担任本行独立及非执行董事。詹教授是新加坡 NSL、三盅两件集团及新加
坡铁路学院董事长。他还是 MFS  科技、维信
集团、大华银行及其附属公司远东银行的前
董事。作为新加坡教育领域的杰出人物，詹教授是
新加坡新跃社科大学的前名誉校长和托管理
事会主席，也是新加坡南洋理工大学的创校
校长。2003 年，詹教授获象征新加坡最高荣
耀的新加坡国庆“殊功勋章”，以表彰其在教
育领域的杰出贡献。作为一名经验丰富的专业工程师，詹教授拥
有马来西亚大学土木工程学学士荣誉学位、
伦敦大学数学理学学士荣誉学位和英国剑桥
大学流体力学博士学位。他也是新加坡工程
师协会、新加坡工程院、英国皇家工程院、
英国机械工程师学会的资深会员，以及瑞典
皇家工程科学院外籍院士。Prof  Cham,  81,  was  appointed  as  the  Deputy 
Supervisor of United Overseas Bank (China) with 
effective from 1 January 2017. Prof Cham was a 
non-executive and independent director of the 
Bank from 2008 to 2016.Prof  Cham  is  the  Chairman  of  NSL,  Soup 
Restaurant  and  Singapore  Rail  Academy.  He 
is a former director of MFS Technology, WBL 
Corporation  and  UOB  and  its  subsidiary,  Far 
Eastern Bank.A prominent figure in the Singapore education 
scene, Prof Cham is the former Chancellor of 
Singapore  University  of  Social  Sciences  and 
Chairman of its Board of Trustees, and was the 
founding President of Nanyang Technological 
University. For his outstanding contributions to 
education, he was conferred the Distinguished 
Service Order, Singapore's highest National Day 
Award, in 2003.An  engineer  by  training,  Prof  Cham  holds  a 
Bachelor of Engineering (Civil, Hons) from the 
University  of  Malaya,  a  Bachelor  of  Science 
in Mathematics (Hons) from the University of 
London  and  a  Doctor  of  Philosophy  in  Fluid 
Mechanics from the University of Cambridge, 
UK.  He  is  also  a  Fellow  of  the  Institution  of 
Engineers, Singapore, Academy of Engineering, 
Singapore, Royal Academy of Engineering, UK 
and Institution of Mechanical Engineers, UK and 
a foreign member of Royal Swedish Academy of 
Engineering Sciences.董事会
Board of Directors黄一宗Wee Ee Cheong董事长
Chairman68 岁，2007 年12 月5 日受委任为大华银行（中国）
董事会董事长、非执行非独立董事，同时也
是本行执行委员会主席和提名及薪酬委员会
成员。黄先生是一位拥有 40 余年经验的职业银行
家，他于 1979  年加入新加坡大华银行，并自
1990 年起担任大华银行董事。目前担任大华
银行董事局副主席兼总裁。黄先生同时也是大华保险的董事与大华银行
（马来西亚）及大华银行（泰国）的董事局
副主席。他还兼任大华银行（印尼）的监事长，
并曾任远东银行的董事。黄先生积极参与促进行业及社区发展，是新
加坡银行公会副主席以及新加坡银行与金融
学院理事会的成员。他亦是新中教育基金会
理事会、印尼 - 新加坡商业理事会的成员，
以及新加坡中华总商会名誉理事。此前，他
也曾担任新加坡建屋发展局的副主席、新加
坡港务局、华业集团、泛太平洋酒店集团和
大华证券的董事，以及 Visa AP 资深客户理事
会成员。黄先生热衷艺术事业，是南洋艺术学院的赞
助人，也是黄氏基金的董事。鉴于他对金融业的贡献，2013 年他荣获新加
坡政府颁发的“公共服务星章”。Mr  Wee,  68,  was  appointed  as  director  and 
Chairman of the Bank on 5 December 2007. A 
non-executive and non-independent director, he 
is the Chairman of the Executive Committee and 
a member of the Nominating and Remuneration 
Committee.A  career  banker  with  more  than  40  years' 
experience in the UOB Group, Mr Wee joined 
UOB in 1979 and has been a director of UOB 
since 1990. He is currently the Deputy Chairman 
and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of UOB.He also holds directorships in United Overseas 
Insurance,  United  Overseas  Bank  (Malaysia) 
(Deputy Chairman) and United Overseas Bank 
(Thai) Public Company (Deputy Chairman). He 
is the President Commissioner of PT Bank UOB 
Indonesia. Mr Wee was also formerly a director 
of Far Eastern Bank.Active in industry and community development, 
Mr Wee serves as Vice Chairman of The Association 
of Banks in Singapore and is a council member 
of The Institute of Banking and Finance. He is 
also a member of the Board of Governors of the 
Singapore-China Foundation, Indonesia-Singapore 
Business Council and Honorary Council Member 
of the Singapore Chinese Chamber of Commerce 
and Industry. He was previously Deputy Chairman 
of  the  Housing  and  Development  Board,  a 
director of the Port of Singapore Authority, UOL 
Group,  Pan  Pacific  Hotels  Group  and  United 
International Securities, and a member of Visa AP 
Senior Client Council.黄一宗先生拥有华盛顿特区美国大学理学学
士（工商管理）学位和文学硕士（应用经济学）
学位。A keen art enthusiast, Mr Wee is the Patron of 
the Nanyang Academy of Fine Arts. He is also a 
director of the Wee Foundation.In 2013, he was awarded the Singapore Public 
Service Star by the Singapore Government for his 
contributions to the ﬁnancial industry.Mr Wee holds a Bachelor of Science (Business 
Administration) and a Master of Arts (Applied 
Economics) from American University, Washington, DC.1617董事会
Board of Directors符懋赞Peter FOO Moo Tan行长兼首席执行官
President and Chief
Executive Ofﬁcer58 岁，于 2016 年 12 月 19 日出任大华银行（中国）
行长兼首席执行官一职，并于 2017 年 1 月 18
日受委任加入大华银行（中国）董事会。作
为执行非独立董事，他同时也是大华银行（中
国）执行委员会成员。符先生亦是大华银行
集团管理委员会成员。Mr Foo, 58, was appointed President and Chief 
Executive Officer (CEO) on 19 December 2016 
and a director of the Board of UOB (China) on 18 
January 2017. An executive and non-independent 
director,  he  is  a  member  of  UOB  (China)'s 
Executive Committee. Mr Foo is also a member 
of UOB Group Management Committee.符先生于 2011 年加入大华银行，主管资金和环
球金融部海外分支机构业务，并于 2012 年开始
担任大华银行（泰国）行长兼首席执行官一职。Mr Foo joined UOB in 2011 as the Head of the 
Group's Treasury and Global Markets business for its 
overseas subsidiaries and branches. He also served 
as President and CEO of UOB (Thai) from 2012.符先生拥有 30 多年银行业从业经验。加入大
华银行之前，符先生在富通银行任职 11 年，
期间出任多个管理职位，包括新加坡分行首
席执行官、亚太董事会成员、私人银行新加
坡董事总经理以及新加坡分行环球金融部主
管。 此 前， 他 的 职 业 经 历 还 包 括 于 1988 至
2000 年间，先后在美国纽约化学银行，美国
银行以及奥地利银行担任管理职务。符先生
的职业生涯始于 1987 年，作为管理培训生加
入壳牌公司新加坡分公司。符先生是现任大华银行集团旗下上海华新置
业 有 限 公 司 主 席， 恒 丰 银 行 股 份 有 限 公 司
非执行董事和亚洲影响力投资基金公司 (AIIF 
Capital Partners Limited)  董事。同时，他也是
CFA 协会资本市场政策委员会的委员。也曾
担任国际金融市场协会（ACI）的行政委员会
成员及东亚区代表 , 新加坡特许金融分析师学
会（CFA Singapore）董事会成员 , 新加坡银行
公会 (ABS) 委员 , 以及淡马锡控股旗下新加坡
交易所（SGX）上市公司新源基础设施信托的
独立董事。符先生在新华社主办的 2020“沪上
金融家”评选中，荣膺 2020 沪上金融行业创
新人物。符先生拥有新加坡国立大学房地产管理学士
荣誉学位，也是一名特许金融分析师。Mr Foo has more than 30 years of experience in 
banking and financial markets. Prior to joining 
UOB,  he  served  for  11  years  at  Fortis  Bank, 
S.A./N.V. Singapore, where he assumed many 
management roles including the CEO, Asia Paciﬁc 
Management Board member, Managing Director 
of Private Banking and Head of Global Markets.Mr Foo's previous professional experience also 
includes  holding  various  executive  positions 
at Bank Austria Creditanstalt, Bank of America, 
and Chemical Bank between 1988 and 2000. Mr 
Foo  embarked  on  the  career  as  management 
associate with Shell Singapore in 1987.Mr  Foo  is  the  Chairman  of  UOB  Property 
China  Co.Ltd,  the  non-executive  director  of 
Hengfeng Bank as well as the director of AIIF 
Capital  Partners  Limited,  the  general  partner 
of Asia Impact Investment Fund I L.P. He is also 
a  Council  Member  of  Capital  Markets  Policy 
Council (CMPC) of CFA Institute. Previously, he 
served  as  the  Executive  Committee  Member 
and Regional Representative of South East Asia 
of ACI-The Financial Markets Association, Board 
Member of CFA Singapore, Council Member of 
the Association of Banks in Singapore and an 
independent director of SGX listed/Temasek's 
CitySpring Infrastructure Investment Trust. Mr Foo 
was awarded as a 2020 Shanghai Financial Industry 
Innovation  Figure  at  the  Shanghai  Financiers 
Awards hosted by Xinhua News Agency.Mr Foo holds a Bachelor of Estate Management 
(Hons) from the National University of Singapore 
and is a Chartered Financial Analyst.叶杨诗明
Christine Ip57 岁，2011 年 8 月 22 日受委任加入董事会。
作为非执行非独立董事，她同时也是本行董
事会风险管理委员会主席以及执行委员会、
审计委员会、提名及薪酬委员会和关联交易
控制委员会成员。叶杨女士于 2011 年加入大华银行，并于 2011
年 12 月被委任为大华银行香港分行首席执行
官，拥有 30 多年的个人银行及企业银行从业
经验。叶杨女士自 2016 年 7 月 1 日起担任大
华银行大中华地区首席执行官，负责大中华
业务发展策略。在加入大华银行之前，叶杨女士曾在中国香
港、美国、加拿大、新加坡和中国内地等地
区担任过产品开发、销售管理、客户管理和
风险管理等一系列高级管理层职位。叶杨女士同时也是数码通电讯集团有限公司
的独立非执行董事。鉴于其在金融行业中的卓越成就，叶杨女士
于 2008 年荣获亚洲零售商会议颁发的“全球
零售银行家领导奖”，并被中国杰出女企业
家联谊会评选为“2012 年中国百名杰出女企
业家”。叶杨女士拥有香港大学文学学士学位及香港
科技大学工商管理硕士学位。Mrs  Ip,  57,  was  appointed  to  the  Board  on 
22  August  2011.  A  non-executive  and  non-
independent director, she is the Chairman of 
the Bank's Board Risk Management Committee 
and a member of the Bank's Executive, Audit, 
Nominating and Remuneration, and Connected 
Transactions Control Committees.A  veteran  banker  with  more  than  30  years' 
experience  in  both  consumer  and  corporate 
banking,  Mrs  Ip  joined  UOB  in  2011  and  was 
appointed as Chief Executive Officer of UOB 
Hong Kong Branch in December 2011. Mrs Ip was 
appointed as Chief Executive Officer for UOB 
Greater China with effect from 1 July 2016, and 
is responsible for developing UOB's business in 
Greater China.Prior to joining UOB, Mrs Ip held several senior 
management  positions  in  product  and  sales 
management, customer segment management 
and risk management in Hong Kong, the United 
States, Canada, Singapore and Mainland China.She  is  also  an  independent  non-executive 
director  of  SmarTone  Telecommunications 
Holdings Limited.In  recognition  of  her  achievements,  Mrs  Ip 
received  the  Asia  Retail  Congress  Award  for 
"Best International Retail Banker"  in 2008 and 
was named as one of the top 100 outstanding 
Chinese businesswomen in the Greater China 
region in 2012 by the China Outstanding Female 
Entrepreneurs Association.Mrs  Ip  holds  a  Bachelor  of  Arts  from  the 
University of Hong Kong and a Master of Business 
Administration from the Hong Kong University of 
Science and Technology.1819董事会
Board of Directors62 岁，2017 年 1 月 20 日受委任加入董事会。
作为独立董事，他同时也是本行审计委员会
和提名及薪酬委员会主席，以及关联交易控
制委员会和董事会风险管理委员会成员。刘先生现任亚投资本的创始合伙人及首席执
行官，同时也担任信泰资本管理有限公司董
事。刘先生还在招商永隆银行担任独立董事
职务。刘二飞
Liu Erh Fei刘先生曾担任美林中国区主席及美银美林中
国区总经理。他还曾在高盛集团、摩根士丹利、
所罗门美邦国际、东方汇理银行担任高层。刘 先 生 拥 有 布 兰 迪 斯 大 学 经 济 学 和 国 际 关
系 学 士 学 位， 及 哈 佛 商 学 院 工 商 管 理 学 硕
士学位。Mr Liu, 62, was appointed to the Board on 20 
January 2017. As an independent director, he is 
the Chairman of the Audit and Nominating and 
Remuneration Committees, and a member of the 
Connected Transactions Control and Board Risk 
Management Committees.Mr Liu is currently the founding partner and Chief 
Executive Officer of Asia Investment Capital. 
He also serves as a director of Cindat Capital 
Management Limited, as well as an independent 
director for CMB Wing Lung Bank Limited.Mr  Liu  was  formerly  the  Chairman  of  Merrill 
Lynch China and Country Executive of Bank of 
America Merrill Lynch. He had previously worked 
as head of Asia or China for Goldman Sachs, 
Morgan Stanley, Smith Barney and Indosuez.He holds a Bachelor of Arts in Economics and 
International Relations from Brandeis University, 
and a Master of Business Administration from 
Harvard Business School.吴玉华Wu Yu Hua62 岁，2018 年 8 月 29 日受委任加入董事会。
作为独立董事，他同时也是本行关联交易控
制委员会主席，及审计委员会、提名及薪酬
委员会和董事会风险管理委员会成员。吴教授现任上海市张江科技园发展有限公司
常务总裁、上海长三角科技城发展有限公司
执行总裁和上海华夏文化经济促进会副会长。吴教授曾任上海宝钢集团驻欧洲办事机构首
席代表、计划财务部投资管理与咨询总监；
曾任德国西门子集团高层管理职务包括西门
子（中国）有限公司副总裁、西门子全球房
地产集团中国区投资副总裁和西门子世博项
目中心总裁；曾在法国阿尔斯通集团担任高
层；还曾任中国外商投资企业协会投资性公
司工作委员会第一届办公室主任。吴教授拥有中国高级经济师职称和德国济根
大学经济学硕士学位，并于 2019 年被上海外
国语大学聘任为客座教授、被复旦大学聘为
金融研究中心兼职研究员。2020 年，吴教授
被任命为东华大学人工智能研究院理事会理
事长。Prof Wu, 62, was appointed to the Board on 29 
August 2018. As an independent director, he is 
the Chairman of the Connected Transactions 
Control Committee, and a member of the Audit, 
Nominating and Remuneration and Board Risk 
Management Committees.Prof  Wu  is  currently  Executive  President  of 
Shanghai Zhangjiang High-tech Park Development 
Company Limited, Executive President of Shanghai 
Yangtze River Delta Sci-tech City Development 
Company  Limited,  and  Vice  Chairman  of 
Shanghai Huaxia Culture and Economy Promotion 
Association.Prof Wu formerly served as Chief Representative 
for  Europe  and  Africa  Regions  and  director 
of  Investment  and  Consulting  Management, 
Planning and Finance for China Baosteel Group. 
He took senior positions in Siemens, including 
Vice  President  of  Siemens  (China)  Company 
Limited, Vice President of Siemens Real Estate 
Investment China and President of Siemens Expo 
Programme Centre (SEPC). He also held senior 
positions  in  ALSTOM.  Prof  Wu  assumed  the 
position of director of Executive Committee of 
the first session of Foreign Invested Companies 
(ECFIC) of China Association of Enterprises with 
Foreign Investment (CAEFI).Prof Wu is a Certiﬁed Senior Economist in China. 
He holds a Master’s Degree in Economics from 
German Siegen University. He was appointed as 
the guest professor of Shanghai International 
Studies University and as the Adjunct Researcher 
of the Financial Research Center, Fudan University 
in 2019. In 2020, Prof Wu was ofﬁcially nominated 
as  the  Chairman  of  the  Council  of  Artificial 
Intelligence  Research  Institute  of  Donghua 
University.2021大华银行中国组织架构图
UOB China Organisation Chart 2020股东Shareholder审计委员会Audit Committee集团合规Group Compliance监事Supervisors董事会Board of Directors行长兼首席执行官
President and CEO关联交易控制委员会Connected Transactions  Control Committee资产负债委员会Asset and Liability Committee管理委员会Management Committee提名及薪酬委员会Nominating and Remuneration Committee消费者权益保护委员会Consumer Rights Protection Committee操作风险管理委员会Operational Risk Management Committee行长办公室
CEO Office董事会风险管理委员会Board Risk Management Committee信贷委员会In-Country Credit Committee风险与资本委员会Risk and Capital Committee外国直接投资咨询Foreign Direct Investment Advisory项目管理办公室Transformation Office执行委员会Executive Committee上海徐家汇支行Xujiahui上海自贸试验区支行Shanghai Pilot FreeTrade Zone上海静安支行Jing'An上海分行
Shanghai杭州分行
Hangzhou苏州分行
Suzhou深圳分行
Shenzhen广州分行
Guangzhou中山分行
Zhongshan北京分行
北京分行
北京分行Beijing
Beijing
Beijing天津分行Tianjin沈阳分行
Shenyang重庆分行
Chongqing成都分行
Chengdu昆明分行
Kunming厦门分行
Xiamen个人金融服务Personal Financial Services企业银行Corporate Banking商业银行Commercial Banking交易银行Transaction Banking金融机构Financial Institutions Group跨国企业银行Multinational Corporate批发银行Wholesale Banking财富管理Wealth Management零售业务销售Sales and Distribution抵押贷款Secured Lending业务管控及支持Business Controls andAdministration客户拓展和战略合作部Partnership Alliance市场营销、数字业务及战略Marketing, Digital andStrategy总行行业事业部
Industry Banker分行商业银行Commercial Banking (Branches)贸易融资销售及咨询Trade Sales and Advisory银行同业Bank信贷分析部
Credit Analysis外商投资企业部
 Global Subsidiary中国企业部China Corporation信贷分析Credit Analysts产品行销Product Sales Specialists业务计划、数据分析�和风险管理Business Management,Data Analyticsand Credit Assurance企业财富管理Corporate WealthManagement环球业务拓展
China GlobalBusiness Development业务助理Business Associate非银行金融机构
Non-Bank FinancialInsititutions房地产基金及金融投资者Property Funds and
Financial Sponsors现金管理销售及咨询Cash Management
Sales and Advisory贸易融资产品管理Trade Product Management现金产品管理Cash Product Management负债产品管理Liability Product Management结构性贸易及商品融资Structured Trade and
Commodity Finance客户实施及服务Client Fulfillment and Service业务管理Business Management批发银行部主管办公室Wholesale BankingHead Office环球金融部Global Markets投资组合与流动性管理Portfolio andLiquidity Management私人财富管理部
Private Wealth
Management环球市场交易Global Markets Trading环球市场产品结构Global Markets Structure环球市场销售Global Markets Sales业务管理Business Management合规Compliance财务及企业服务Finance andCorporate Services企业银行信贷Corporate Credit商业银行信贷Commercial Credit科技及营运Technology and 
Operations (T&O)人力资源Human Resources (HR)风险管理Risk Management法律与秘书Legal and Secretariat渠道及数字化Channels and Digitalisation策略通讯与品牌部Strategic Communicationsand Brand反洗钱/反恐怖融资及制裁
Anti-Money Laundering / 
Counter Terrorism Financing批发银行合规Wholesale BankingCompliance / Global MarketsCompliance Advisory零售银行合规
Retail BankingCompliance Advisory综合合规Generals Compliance分行合规Local Compliance22财务
Finance企业服务企业银行信贷
Corporate Credit信贷特管Corporate Real Estate ServicesSpecial Asset Management零售银行业务营运
Retail Operations批发银行业务营运
Wholesale Operations科技与营运保障Technology and OperationsAssurance信息科技服务Business TechnologyServices共享设施服务Shared InfrastructureServices科技与营运
行政与财务
T&O AdminSupport and Finance科技及营运服务管理Business T&O Management信息安全Information Security分行运营管理Branch OperationsManagement人才与组织发展Talent and OrganisationDevelopment绩效与薪酬Rewards人力资源服务HR Services人力资源业务伙伴HR Business
Management公司人力资源Integrated Corporate HR分行人力资源管理Branch HR Management法律
Legal秘书Secretariat金融科技，生态圈及创新O2O, Fintech,Ecosystem and Innovation客户体验及权益部
Customer Experienceand Advocacy信贷风险管理Credit Risk Management资产负债风险管理
Balance Sheet RiskManagement市场风险管理及监控Market Risk Managementand Product Control操作风险管理
Operational RiskManagement欺诈风险管理Integrated FraudManagement科技风险管理
Technology RiskManagement风险策略Risk Strategy理财事业部Wealth Governance内部审计Internal Audit常规审计General Audit资讯科技审计Technology Audit23管理层报告
2020 in Review抗击新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情，支持企业复工复产
COVID-19 Relief2020 年新冠肺炎疫情的爆发，牵动每一个金融从业者的心。大华银行中国积极行动，联动海外母行和分行，以及各方的力量，支持企业、
员工和社区大众共克时艰，抗击疫情。原陆家嘴金融城发展局副局长任凯锋（左）接受两万个口罩的捐赠，
并向大华银行中国行长兼首席执行官符懋赞（右）送上感谢信In 2020, COVID-19 devastated lives and livelihoods. To help our customers, colleagues and the community overcome unprecedented challenges, UOB 
China called on the strength of the UOB network and our like-minded partners to offer various support options to see people through to better times.Mr Ren Kaifeng, former Deputy Head of Lujiazui Administrative Bureau (left), 
received 200,000 face masks and sent a thank-you letter to Mr Peter Foo, President 
and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, UOB China.支持企业抗击疫情、复工复产Supporting our customers in challenging times保护员工健康安全Taking care of our colleagues为了支持企业全面抗疫，我行采取了一系列人性化措施。春节期间
我行客户经理及时联络企业客户，以确保新的休假安排下，有序处
理客户业务。从自 1 月 29 日起，我行免除企业客户所有与新冠肺炎疫情相关的捐
赠款项及涉及医疗采购等方面的汇款、银行承兑汇票、信用证业务
的手续费，并为某医药流通企业开辟优先通道，并给予该企业多笔
合计上千万的人民币短期贷款的放款。同时，为了助力企业复工复产，保障实体经济发展，我行也为多家
制造类和贸易类企业客户，予以贷款展期，并积极与客户沟通资金
使用需求事宜，协助企业规划资金。在办公场所和业务网点，我行也采取了一系列严格的防护检查措施；
以保证员工和客户的安全健康。我行也及时通过大华银行中国的官
网、官方微信以及网点的展示屏，向公众告知营业网点时间变更情
况和网点恢复后的各项疫情防控举措，并宣传疫情防护要点。我行
也确保网上银行，手机银行等电子平台平稳运行，鼓励客户通过线
上完成业务，减少人员聚集。In line with the government's COVID-19 relief measures, we developed a 
series of relief measures to cushion the business impact on our clients.With the sudden declaration of an extended Lunar New Year holiday and 
lockdowns put in place to combat the virus, our relationship managers 
engaged clients during the extended holiday to ensure their banking 
needs could be met. From 29 January 2020, we waived the service charge 
for any transaction related to medical support and donations related to 
ﬁghting COVID-19. We opened accelerated the funding application of a 
pharmaceutical distribution company to help them to purchase medical 
supplies for a hospital in dire need of equipment to ﬁght the virus.To  help  businesses  manage  the  disruption  COVID-19  caused  to  the 
operations of companies in the manufacturing and trading sectors, UOB 
China offered loan extensions. The Bank also actively communicated 
with clients to understand their business challenges and to assist with 
additional funding as necessary.We took a multitude of precautionary measures at all our ofﬁce buildings 
and branches to protect customers who visited us. We also offered 
information on updated operation hours for branches, in-branch safety 
measures as well as social etiquette through our country site, official 
WeChat and LED displays at branches. Given the need to reduce physical 
interactions, we encouraged customers to use our online and mobile 
banking services.为了确保每位员工的身体健康以及提供更好的防护，我行结合抗击
疫情的部署要求推出一系列防疫措施，如每日健康打卡、居家办公、
发放防疫用品、提供上门核酸检测服务、定期推送健康贴士等。此外，
我行推出了全新的员工关爱计划 – Care U，为员工及家属提供全天
候的心理咨询服务，关爱特殊时期的身心健康。疫情期间，配合国家政策要求，同时保障员工安全，我们也推出了
灵活办公和居家办公的安排。为了让大家安心地“云办公”，我们
不仅强化了内部远程办公平台，增加授权设备终端，同时也及时推
出多个专属企业在线会议及沟通软件，包括 Skype, Microsoft Teams
以及 Yammer，让大家可以安全高效地开展会议，保持高效的协同
工作。To ensure the health and well-being our colleagues, we stepped up 
our safety measures. These measures included daily health monitoring, 
providing  personal  protective  gear,  on-site  nucleic  acid  testing  and 
sharing health tips frequently. We launched a new employee assistance 
programme named Care U. The programme provides emotional support 
and psychological consultation to colleagues and their family members 
through a 24/7 service hotline and the Care U website.We implemented flexible work and work from home arrangements in 
accordance with local policies. We also rolled out new virtual meetings 
and instant messaging applications including Skype, Microsoft Teams and 
Yammer. These tools enable our colleagues to connect and collaborate 
virtually, securely and productively.守护社区和一线工作者安全为了助力有需求的社区和人群共同抗击新冠疫情，我行 2020 年共捐
赠总价值超过 65 万元人民币的防护物资。其中包括通过友成企业家扶贫基金会、新叶公益等公益机构向湖北
省在内的六省市的一线工作者以及有需求的单位和人群，捐赠 10 万
只一次性医用外科口罩。我行还通过爱德基金会向湖北荆州小学实验幼儿园支援近 10 万元人
民币，用于购置 12 个教学班的 31 台等离子体空气消毒机器，全力守
护 400 余名幼儿园师生的返校健康。Stepping up to protect the vulnerableIn 2020, UOB China donated personal protective gear worth RMB650,000 
to support local communities to help combat the virus.We partnered with Youcheng China Social Entrepreneurship Foundation 
and YesKids to provide 100,000 surgical face masks to doctors in hospitals, 
frontline service workers, community volunteers, journalists and the 
elderly in six provinces and cities across China including Hubei Province.We also donated 31 photocatalytic high efficiency particulate air filters 
to Experimental Learning Preschool under Jingzhou Primary School in 
Jingzhou City, Hubei province. These air filters help trap and remove 
harmful viruses in the air and protected more than 400 children and 
teachers in the school.2425管理层报告
2020 in Review帮助客户无缝对接集团业务网络，助力业务稳定增长，开拓跨境商机
Providing Customers with Seamless Connectivity Across Our Network大华银行对东盟的发展前景和基础优势深信不疑。大华银行中国也利用集团在东盟和中国间的业务网络联动，助力客户负责任地拓展其业务。
中国与东盟不仅携手克服了由新冠疫情导致的经济影响，也将继续在全球供应链转型以及多边贸易合作（如区域全面经济伙伴关系协定签订）
等领域进行互联互通和合作。因此，我们不仅着眼于支持客户应对“新常态”下的各类挑战，也帮助企业把握未来区域经济增长红利，我们结合集团网点优势和本地专业团
队，以及我行的合作伙伴资源，助力实体经济发展，帮助企业抓住本地和东盟跨境机遇。UOB has long believed in the fundamental strengths and prospects of ASEAN. At UOB China, we help our customers advance their businesses 
responsibly by capitalising on our network connectivity across ASEAN and China. Beyond overcoming the immediate economic impact from the 
COVID-19 pandemic, ASEAN and China's long-term connectivity and collaboration will continue to be driven by the diversiﬁcation of global supply 
chains, as well as multilateral collaborations such as the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership.We help our customers to overcome the challenges of today and to emerge stronger tomorrow. With our unique combination of in-market presence, 
local insights and expertise, coupled with the partner ecosystems we forge, we help businesses sharpen their capabilities and connect them to 
opportunities domestically and in ASEAN's diversiﬁed markets.推出多种解决方案和举措，高效满足实体经济的资金需求Addressing companies' liquidity needs2020 年，我们继续以贸易融资产品结合行业特性，为客户及其供应
链上的企业，提供供应链金融服务。我们通过专业的行业分析，加
深与不同核心企业的合作，推出一系列不同模型的供应链融资项目。
每一个供应链融资项目都有标准化流程，充分发挥了批量客户获取、
审批、落地及贷后管理的效率。这些方案为供应链金融项目下的企业，尤其是中小企业提供了优惠
的融资方案，有效解决了中小企业的融资成本和流动性的需求，帮
助客户打造良性的供应链生态体系，实现供应链的多方共赢。2020 年，我行供应链金融项目的客户数量和授信总额，年增长均超
过 30%。自 2019 年成为上海期货交易所（上期所）会员以来，我行不断创新
服务，产品种类日益丰富，大宗商品与贵金属业务规模持续增长。
2020 年针对实体企业不同需求，我行也推出相应交易服务，帮助其
提升库存周转效率，缓解资金压力，更有效地管理商品风险。供应链金融项目的客户数量和授信总额，
年增长均超过
more than 30 per cent year-on-year growth in both 
the number of clients and credit facilities under 
our FSCM programmes30%26In 2020, we continued to offer clients ﬁnancial supply chain management 
(FSCM) programmes comprising end-to-end ﬁnancing solutions and cost-
efﬁcient trade facilities that are tailored to meet their speciﬁc sectoral 
needs. We do so by analysing their business models and supply chains, 
followed by developing standardised processes for ﬁnancing applications 
and approvals, disbursement and post-loan servicing.These FSCM programmes also enable us to provide our clients' supply 
chain partners, which are mostly small- and medium-sized enterprises 
(SMEs), with easier access to ﬁnancing solutions that can help lower their 
ﬁnancing costs and improve their cash ﬂow. In doing so, we are supporting 
our clients in building and maintaining healthy supply chains with win-win 
outcomes for all parties.In 2020, we recorded more than 30 per cent year-on-year growth in both 
the number of clients and credit facilities under our FSCM programmes.Since becoming a member of the Shanghai Futures Exchange (SHFE) in 
2019, we have been expanding our suite of trading products and services, 
which has led to a continued growth of our commodity and bullion 
business. To address changing business needs, in 2020 we launched trading 
solutions to enable our clients to improve inventory turnover, to alleviate 
cash ﬂow pressure and to manage commodity risks more effectively.例如，在受疫情影响、企业销售放缓的背景下，我行与某矿产企业
达成上期所白银标准仓单 * 回购交易。该交易为企业盘活了实物库存、
有效降低企业融资成本至 30%。这一交易方案，直击实体企业客户
库存高企的经营痛点，并为解决实体企业“融资难、融资贵”问题做
出有益的尝试。同年 9 月，我行依托上期所平台，成功完成了首笔黄金期货“一日交
割”业务，也是上期所首批“一日交割”业务之一。该类业务将交割日
期从五天缩短为一天，大幅提升货物和资金的对转效率，高效满足
了企业的用金需求。自《粤港澳大湾区发展规划纲要》发布后，大湾区企业跨境交易和
融资日益增长。值纲要推出一周年之际，我行特别针对大湾区商业
银行部客户推出“跨境快速支付”活动以满足大湾区日益增长的资金
跨境流动的便利化需求，并通过各类费率优惠，切实提升企业资金
调配效率，降低企业运营成本，优化企业资金收益，协助大湾区客
户实现跨境资金管理高效化与便利化。依托业务网络和合作伙伴生态系统，助力企业把握跨境商机2020 年，东盟与中国的进出口贸易逆势增长，成为中国第一大贸易
伙伴，以及最受中企欢迎的海外投资目的地之一。随着全球地缘政
治环境和疫情所带来的不确定性的叠加，也促使企业进行全球运营
战略和产业链布局的调整。这些企业一方面继续深化国内市场，另
一方面以新加坡为跳板，在印度尼西亚、马来西亚、泰国及越南等
东盟国家拓展业务。依托母行在区域内广泛的业务网络，我行继续助力中外企业，利用
地区间不断升级的经贸合作，实现高质量的“走出去”和“引进来”，
进而加深我们与客户的之间的合作共赢。实现这一目标的方式之一，就是利用本地业务能力及合作伙伴生态
系统，帮助客户实现跨境发展。我行通过特有的外国直接投资（FDI）咨询部在亚洲的 10 个 FDI 中心，
为企业拓展海外业务提供一站式服务。截至 2020 年底，FDI  咨询部
已成功协助 3,500 家国内外企业到东盟拓展业务 , 其中，中资企业的
占比为 45%。* 标准仓单是指由交易所指定交割库在交易所标准仓单管理系统中签发给货主的，用
于提取商品的凭证。交易所各期货品种合约的交割，均以电子仓单交割形式完成。* The SHFE Warrant is a standard delivery certificate issued by delivery warehouse 
certiﬁed by a futures exchange. It serves as a medium between futures and physicals to 
settle futures contracts.For example, we tapped SHFE's warehouse warrant financing to help 
commodity companies overcome liquidity challenges. Due to slowing and 
uncertain demand, sales and distribution amid the global pandemic, these 
companies held higher inventory levels, which resulted in increased costs 
and greater need for working capital. We repurchased a silver warehouse 
warrant* from a mining client on SHFE's standard warehouse warrant 
trading system and signed a forward contract to sell it back on a future 
date. This ﬁnancing approach enabled the client to improve its inventory 
turnover and to save ﬁnancing costs of up to 30 per cent.We also launched a one-day delivery service for physical commodities 
and completed the first transaction in September. This was SHFE's first 
one-day physical commodities delivery transaction after it announced 
the shortening of the gold delivery period from ﬁve days to one day after 
trading. Through this transaction, we addressed our client's demand for 
gold and helped to improve its capital efﬁciency.Since the State Council's release of the Outline of the Development 
Plan for the Greater Bay Area (GBA),  cross-border  investment  and 
financing activities have increased in the GBA. In conjunction with the 
ﬁrst anniversary of the plan, we launched our Cross-Border Fast Payment 
service to UOB China and UOB Hong Kong's commercial banking clients 
located  in  the  GBA  to  meet  their  increasing  need  for  cross-border 
liquidity management. As part of the service, we offer preferential rates to 
help our clients reduce operating costs and optimise returns so that they 
can achieve efﬁcient and effective cross-border fund management.Connecting businesses to regional opportunitiesASEAN's  connectivity  with  China  was  enhanced  in  2020,  becoming 
China's biggest trade partner and one of the most preferred overseas 
investment destinations, as COVID-19 disrupted global supply chains and 
amid geopolitical tensions. The region benefitted as companies began 
diversifying their supply chains into countries such as Indonesia, Malaysia, 
Thailand and Vietnam – often using Singapore as a springboard, while 
maintaining presence in key markets within China.Through  UOB's  entrenched  network  presence  in  these  markets,  we 
are  placed  strategically  to  support  businesses  as  they  capitalise  on 
opportunities along the regional trade corridors between China and 
ASEAN.To help businesses expand regionally, we combine our banking expertise 
and local market understanding with on-the-ground support, assisting 
them in seeking and seizing cross-border opportunities.For example, UOB's 10 dedicated Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) Advisory 
Centres in Asia have been offering businesses with local market insights, 
market-entry support and holistic banking solutions. As at the end of 
2020, UOB Group has supported more than 3,500 companies in their 
cross-border expansion, of which 45 per cent are Chinese enterprises.27管理层报告
2020 in Review在与一家全球领先的工程机械制造商建立业务关系后，我们坚持利
用大华银行东南亚的网络优势，全力配合该集团客户的“一带一路”
业务发展策略。2020 年，我们为该集团客户提供了度身定制的融资
方案及东南亚货币一站式服务，避开中间美元汇率波动造成的外汇
风险，全力支持其在东南亚的业务融资需求。2020 年，我行也与一大型电力工程企业建立了银企合作关系。我行
联动大华银行印度尼西亚和大华银行泰国，三方共同为客户量身定
制了“中国—东盟跨境现金贸易解决方案”以满足该客户在中国和东
盟市场的业务需求。与此同时，大华银行还为客户提供 FDI 咨询服务，
帮助客户平稳进入东盟新市场发展业务。高新技术产业是我行重点支持行业之一。2020 年，我行与一家长三
角领先的高科技企业签署了合作备忘录，加强与该企业在中国和东
南亚地区的合作，以助力该企业在第三方分析领域的业务，并进一
步支持高新科技行业的高质量发展。为帮助不同类型的企业了解市场动向、发掘跨境发展及合作机遇，
我行还协同政府部门、交易所、专业服务机构、媒体和企业合作伙
伴举办 10 余场线上线下的研讨或推介活动。2020 年 8 月，我行联合西安市政府举办“一带一路”新形势下西部
企业与东南亚双边贸易及投资机遇座谈会，同年 9 月，协助外管局
外汇研究中心在京举办“东南亚货币兑换与东南亚双边贸易及投资
机遇”研讨会，与业界探讨相关的议题。11 月，我行第三次亮相中国国际进口博览会，并展现多元特色的跨
境金融解决方案。同月，我行还出席了一年一度的中国——东盟博
览会， 积极参与东南亚国家政府部门组织的商务交流和对接活动，
并协助解答与会企业的跨境业务方面的问题。In 2020, we deepened our business relationship with a world-leading 
construction machinery manufacturer by tapping UOB's network strengths 
to support its development strategy along the Belt and the Road. In 
addition to customised ﬁnancing solutions, we offered the company one-
stop foreign exchange (FX) service for ASEAN currencies service to help 
mitigate its FX risks and to support its business needs across the region.During the year, we also supported a large, leading Chinese contractor in 
the business of power generation and transmission infrastructure. Together 
with UOB Indonesia and UOB Thailand, we developed an integrated cross-
border cash and trade financing solution to meet the client's financial 
needs in China and ASEAN. Our FDI Advisory team also offered market-
entry support as the client entered into new ASEAN markets.The technology, media, and telecommunications sector is one of the key 
sectors we identiﬁed as key drivers of the economic growth. In 2020, we 
signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with a high-technology 
client in Yangtze River Delta to provide integrated and multi-channel 
financial solutions to support its ongoing innovations in third-party 
analytics in both China and ASEAN. By doing so, we help contribute to the 
development of the high-technology industry in our region.In 2020, we also worked closely with government agencies, exchanges, 
professional service providers and business partners to host more than 10 
physical and virtual events for our clients. These sessions aimed to help 
businesses of different scale learn more about market trends and explore 
cross-border opportunities in ASEAN.In August, we hosted a seminar jointly with the Xi'an Municipal Government 
on ASEAN's investment and trade opportunities. We also assisted the 
State Administration of Foreign Exchange Research Centre to organise a 
seminar that was themed "ASEAN Currency Direct Exchange and Trade 
Opportunities" in September.In November, we showcased our comprehensive cross-border solutions 
at the China International Import Expo for the third consecutive year. We 
also participated in the annual China-ASEAN Expo and helped attendees 
understand investment opportunities and challenges in ASEAN through 
various business networking events organised by the government agencies 
from ASEAN countries.28深化银银合作，携手服务企业发展Deepening relationships with Chinese banks in ASEAN2020 年，我们加强了与中资金融机构客户之间的关系，并继续深化
与战略合作伙伴间的银银合作。In 2020, we strengthened our relationship with ﬁnancial institution clients 
and deepened strategic collaborations with our Chinese banking partners.基于与战略合作伙伴恒丰银行不断深入合作的业务关系，我们双方
签署了《贸易直通车项目合作备忘录》，共同助力企业开展跨境业务，
促进中国与东盟地区之间的国际贸易结算。贸易直通车项目借助大
华银行的东盟网络布局，结合相应优惠政策，为恒丰银行进出口客
户提供优质跨境结算和融资服务；同时大华银行通过恒丰银行的境
内渠道和资源优势，开发有跨境业务需求的客户。2020 年 9 月，大华银行作为联合全球协调行、联合牵头行及账簿管
理行为中资某大型国有银行新加坡分行发行 5  亿新元 3 年期固定利
率票据。此次成功发行帮助发行人实现其价格和规模目标，并展示
了大华银行在新元债券市场的发行实力。此次与票据发行、产品和
分销渠道之间的顺利合作，印证了我行与重要中资银行客户之间的
紧密合作伙伴关系。深化跨境人民币资金和贸易解决方案 , 推动跨境人民币使用便利化伴随中国金融开放脚步加快以及与东盟的经济交往不断加深。越来
越多的企业选择在跨境业务中使用人民币作为结算、贸易融资和贷
款的主要货币。我行也积极把握开放机遇，积极联动集团区域网络，
进一步深化跨境人民币金融解决方案和服务能力，为企业提供更高
效、更优惠的跨境人民币结算和资金管理服务。在 5 月上海临港新片区的金融开放与创新发展政策的发布后，我们
的优质客户纷纷将关注投向了临港新片区。我行第一时间与临港新
片区的相关部门取得联系，为客户建立了信息沟通和业务开拓的快
速通道，并量身定制资金管理等金融解决方案。11 月，我们与客户共同积极探索，已顺利落地新片区内本外币一体
化跨境资金池结构。借助该方案，客户实现了一站式跨境资金高效
管理，大幅节省了该过程中的时间和人力成本。我们也积极探索为企业量身定制东南亚区域跨境人民币双向扫款和
资金集中管理方案。我们中国与东南亚的直连跨境资金池业务的首
个尝试——中泰跨境资金池已经成功上线。2020 年 11 月，大华银行中国成为跨境人民币贸易融资转让服务平台
首批外资银行会员并完成了首批交易。通过使用该平台进行交易，
我行可以为贸易及大宗商品企业提供更安全、便捷、透明的交易服务，
促进跨境人民币贸易发展。As part of our extended strategic partnership with Hengfeng Bank, we 
jointly launched a one-stop trade service to help more Chinese companies 
tap cross-border business opportunities and to facilitate business and 
trade ﬂow between China and ASEAN. Hengfeng Bank's clients are able to 
access UOB's extensive network franchise in ASEAN and tailored cross-
border trade and remittances services. Through Hengfeng Bank's client 
and channel resources, we are also able to expand our base of clients with 
cross-border needs.In  September  2020,  we  supported  our  parent  company,  UOB,  in 
facilitating the S$500 million three-year ﬁxed rate notes issuance, as joint 
global coordinator, joint lead manager and bookrunner, for the Singapore 
branch of a leading state-owned Chinese bank. We successfully achieved 
the issuer's price and size objectives, demonstrating UOB's syndication 
capabilities in the Singapore dollar bond market. Our strong collaboration 
on product and distribution channels across our markets also reinforces 
the close relationships we hold with our key Chinese bank clients.Serving companies' cross-border renminbi (RMB) needsWith  China's  continued  financial  liberalisation  and  the  enhanced 
connectivity between China and ASEAN, more enterprises use RMB for 
cross-border settlements, trade and ﬁnancing. Drawing on the strengths of 
UOB's regional network, we strengthened our cross-border RMB products 
and capabilities to support businesses in a more efﬁcient way.In May 2020, China announced the ﬁnancial opening-up and innovation 
policies at the Shanghai Lin-Gang Special Area, an expanded area of 
Shanghai's  Pilot  Free  Trade  Zone.  Our  clients  were  keen  to  explore 
cross-border business opportunities in this area. We promptly engaged 
relevant regulatory bodies to obtain more detailed information for our 
development of cash management solutions tailored to our clients' needs.Working closely with a corporate client, in November 2020 we launched 
our first multi-currency cross-border cash pool in the Lin-Gang Special 
Area. With this solution, our client has access to one-stop cross-border 
funding, which helps them to save operating time and labour costs.We also rolled out more customised cross-border RMB cash sweeping 
and centralised management solutions. In 2020, our China-Thailand cross-
border cash sweeping service went live successfully.In November 2020, we became one of the ﬁrst foreign bank members of 
the Cross-Border RMB Trade Finance Trading Platform and completed our 
first deal on this system. Through the platform, we can provide trading 
and commodity clients access to safer, more efficient and transparent 
cross-border RMB trading services and contribute to greater inter-regional 
trade ﬂows.29管理层报告
2020 in Review提供有效金融工具，帮助企业降低成本，规避和控制市场风险Enabling companies to manage cross-border market risks more effectively为客户打造适合其人生阶段和生活方式的金融方案
Creating Solutions Essential to Customers' Life Stages and Lifestyles2020 年全球金融市场波动显著增强，不少企业将风险控制放在了更
高的位置。我们帮助企业有效运用金融市场工具，在合法合规的前
提下降低成本，规避市场风险。我们进一步完善和丰富“东南亚货币一站式”服务，便利企业进行包
括新加坡元、泰铢、马来西亚林吉特和印尼盾的直接兑换服务，以
及多种东南亚货币融资和套保等业务。该服务有效帮助企业避免多
重换汇带来的汇兑成本，有效控制汇兑风险。满足客户对于东南亚
币种离岸交易的多样需求。自推出以来，为不少企业优化了汇兑效率，增强了国际议价能力，
同时为国内银行间市场提供东南亚货币流动性，进而得到企业和业
界好评，并荣膺上海市政府授予的“上海金融创新成果奖”三等奖。基于“东南亚货币一站式”服务，我行推出马来西亚林吉特货币信用
证，以配合林吉特 / 人民币直接兑换的业务。2020 年，我行携手
大华银行马来西亚为一大型国企完成其首笔出口方向的马来西亚林
吉特 / 人民币直接收汇兑换业务。这些里程碑式的交易方案，为企
业跨境结算和收付提供了便利。我行也与国内知名龙头矿产企业正式签署合作备忘录，建立战略合
作关系。基于合作备忘录，该企业及其下属公司获得由大华银行提
供的贸易融资、黄金租赁、大宗商品交易、外汇交易、黄金期货实
物交割等一揽子金融服务解决方案。我行也联动母行，协助该企业
管理由国际市场波动所带来的风险并寻求区域内的潜在市场机遇。With  increased  volatility  in  global  financial  markets,  we  encourage 
companies to take a risk-first approach in their business expansion. We 
provided a suite of financial tools to help them manage cost and risk 
while also growing their business.We expanded our ASEAN Currency One-stop Service to provide direct 
exchange of RMB with multiple currencies including the Singapore dollar 
(SGD), Thai baht (THB), Malaysian ringgit (MYR) and Indonesian rupiah 
(IDR), as well as financing and hedging solutions in ASEAN currencies. 
Through the service, our clients are able to control the cost of exchange 
in multiple currencies, to mitigate FX risk and to meet their onshore and 
offshore transaction needs.Since the launch of the service, we have helped many corporate clients 
optimise FX efﬁciency and enhance their bargaining power internationally. 
We also contributed to greater liquidity for ASEAN currencies in China's 
foreign exchange market. As we have done so, we have also received client 
and industry recognition such as the third prize at the Shanghai Financial 
Innovation Awards by the Shanghai Municipal People's Government.Building on our ASEAN Currency One-Stop Service, we launched the 
Letter of Credit in MYR in conjunction with direct FX. Together with 
UOB Malaysia, in 2020 we successfully supported a leading state-owned-
enterprise to complete its ﬁrst direct MYR/CNY conversion and cross-
border RMB collection. Our progressive solutions provide our clients with 
the convenience they need for cross-border payments, settlements and 
collections.We also signed a MOU with one of China's leading gold mining companies, 
a milestone in the deepening of our strategic relationship with the client. 
Under the MOU, we connect the client and its subsidiaries to our full 
range of tailored ﬁnancial services and solutions including trade ﬁnancing, 
cash management, gold loans, FX and commodity hedging. Working 
closely with the rest of UOB Group, we also help the client to overcome 
the challenges arising from global market volatility and to seek regional 
growth opportunities.2020 年新冠疫情把世界带到了百年未有之变局的十字路口，高端财富人群的财产安全保障需求变得更加迫切。面临新格局带来的挑战和机遇，
大华银行中国顺应时势，积极推动零售银行业务的转型和发展，为高端财富人群带来优质便捷、更具特色的财富管理服务。The COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on the economy and society have led to more people reﬂecting on the importance of ﬁnancial security. In light 
of the macro challenges, coupled with our afﬂuent customers' growing ﬁnancial needs, UOB China accelerated the pace of transformation of our retail 
banking business to provide more quality and distinctive wealth management services in 2020.全面升级客户价值主张Redeﬁning our customer value propositions2020 年改变了很多，高端财富人群的财富观、投资理念和生活方式
不断被重塑。我们也全面升级打造客户价值主张 —— 无限 新财富，
聚焦“资产财富”、“资源财富”、“体验财富”三个财富维度。 作为坚
实可靠的财富伙伴，我们用专业为客户夯实核心资产财富；依托新
加坡品牌和区域网络优势，我们打造高端资源网络，为客户赋能珍
贵而稀缺的资源；我们同样重视客户的品质生活需求，推出一系列
尊贵权益，为客户增添无尽美好生活体验。以专业的资产配置为核心竞争力，通过稀缺资源的连接提升服务价
值，以差异化的体验加强客户信赖，我们致力于打造客户的资源型
优选银行。The changing circumstances in 2020 reshaped the financial priorities, 
investment approaches and lifestyles of the affluent segment. To serve 
our customers better, we sharpened our wealth value proposition around 
"Inﬁnite Wealth", which includes three focus areas, namely wealth assets, 
wealth resources and wealth experiences. As our customers' trusted 
ﬁnancial partner, we draw on our expertise to help them safeguard and 
grow their core assets. Tapping UOB's strong regional franchise and 
network of alliances, we also built an ecosystem that connects our 
customers to services offered across our network and by our strategic 
partners. To address our customers' lifestyle needs, we also launched a 
series of exclusive rewards and privileges to enrich their experiences.提升多渠道体验我行既有的理财网点，以及线上的网上银行、手机银行和直销银行，
确保我们为客户提供其首选的服务渠道。2020 年，我们继续重塑财
富管理服务模式，提升数字化营销和服务的多渠道体验。疫情期间，我行及时新上线“大华直播间”、“企业微信”服务，助力
客户及时洞悉市场，足不出户即可享受系列权益。With our professional wealth advisory expertise, complemented by 
our  network  connectivity  and  distinctive  customer  experience,  we 
are committed to building trusted and lasting relationships with our 
customers.Engaging customers through an omni-channel approachWe engage and serve customers in the manner they prefer, whether 
in person at the branch or digitally through internet banking, mobile 
banking or our Direct Banking app. In 2020, we transformed our wealth 
management service model and enhanced our digital marketing and 
service channels for a better omni-channel experience.During the pandemic, we launched "UOB Live Stream" and a WeChat 
customer engagement tool to connect with our customers virtually.  This 
way, we could continue to provide our customers with timely market and 
investment insights, as well as to offer a multitude of privileges within the 
comfort of their own homes.我行全新的客户价值主张
UOB's redeﬁned customer value proposition3031管理层报告
2020 in Review强化抗风险多元资产配置服务我们致力于风险管理和产品突破，甄选境内外合作伙伴，利用“核心
资产”、“策略资产”的资产配置理念，为客户提供更具特色、更多样
的金融解决方案。通过跨大类资产、跨产品种类、跨区域投资，我们帮助客户进行多
元化的资产配置，避免区域性风险造成收益波动，协助客户实现环
球投资、资产稳健的保值增值。成就高端女性无限可能大华银行「尊享理财 」· 晶璨，作为外资银行中首个面向高端女性客
户打造的个人财富管理服务，自 2019 年上线以来，深受女性客户青睐。2020 年，我们更深化、探索专属高端女性“朋友圈”，联合高端生活、
医疗等各领域合作方，推出系列专属高端女性活动， 关注女性的人
生态度和财富追求，帮助她们成就自信人生。助力规划孩子卓越未来我们连接优质教育资源，持续投入为客户提供一站式的优势教育金
融服务。2020 年，我行继续践行覆盖 6-22 岁各个学段的独家教育实
践项目（小小银行家、未来领行家课程、菁英培优计划等）。Taking a Risk-First approach to growing customers' wealth
 
We use a Risk-First wealth approach, which focuses on building up core 
assets before making tactical investment, when guiding customers on 
their investment choices.To this end, we are committed to working with the right product partners, 
domestically and overseas, to offer a comprehensive range of solutions 
across product types, asset classes and geographies. This enables our 
customers to diversify their portfolios, to manage better the volatility 
that could arise from market fluctuations in the region and to achieve 
more stable returns on their investments.Empowering women to live life to the fullest
 
Launched in 2019, our Lady's Programme which is the first initiative 
dedicated to serving afﬂuent women's ﬁnancial needs by a foreign bank in 
China, continued to enjoy strong support.In 2020, we strengthened and integrated our service offering into the lifestyles 
of our women customers. Collaborating with partners providing luxury 
lifestyle, medical and other services, we organised a series of exclusive events 
and provided special privileges so that our female customers could attend to 
the ﬁnancial and lifestyle needs with conﬁdence.Supporting education planning for the next generation除此之外，面对体制内 / 外不同教育体系，我们升级打造了“名校校
长面对面”金牌系列讲座，特邀北京和上海知名院校校长，解读升学
政策，帮助家长规划孩子学业；同时，特邀国际教育专家，全程助
力孩子和家长做好留学周全准备。In recognition of the growing emphasis our customers place on their children's 
education, we continued to work with quality education service providers and 
offered one-stop ﬁnancing solutions to help open educational opportunities 
for the next generation. In 2020, we also ran a series of educational and 
development programmes, including "Junior Bankers", "Future Leaders" and the 
"Elite Youths", for children aged six to 22 years old.To help our customers prepare for the future, we hosted a Headmasters' 
Talk Series, bringing in school principals from well-known educational 
institutions in Shanghai and Beijing to explain admission policies and 
application procedures. In addition, we invited international education 
experts to share their insights on overseas education.运用先进科技以促进客户体验，提升业绩表现
Harnessing technology to enhance customer experience and to drive performance2020 年，新型冠状病毒疫情席卷全球，我行也无一例外地面临着疫
情所带来的前所未有的严峻挑战。尽管如此，我们依然信守对客户
的长期承诺，一如既往地为他们提供持续安全的服务，同时确保客
户及员工的健康安全。In  2020,  the  Bank,  like  other  companies  around  the  world,  faced 
unprecedented challenges from COVID-19. Our mission, despite the 
challenges, was to provide uninterrupted and secure services for our 
customers while keeping customers and colleagues safe as we did so.我们充分利用科技的力量为我行的运营服务赋能，并积极推进战略
调整，使得我行在多变的环境中积累了更强的营运适应力，为客户
带来了更好的服务。作为我行战略调整的一部分，我们将各分行的营运团队进行深度整
合，同时优化操作流程，以促进业务提质增效。考虑到客户对数字化服务的需求不断增长，我们将数字平台的安全
性和稳定性作为首要任务。2020 年 11 月，我们完成了对核心系统本
地高可用性部署，这极大地增强了我行系统的稳健性、服务可持续
性及运行可靠性，同时也促进了我行处理规模业务的能力。2020 年，大华银行集团推出了面向企业银行客户的二代企业网银系
统并首先在新加坡上线。该系统为我行客户管理一系列本地和跨境
金融产品提供了一站式的数字化服务，在提供更便捷更简化的交易
授权的同时也确保交易的安全性。在中国，我行也对相应的系统进
行了升级，以准备在 2021 年向客户正式推出这一网银系统。We harnessed the power of technology to drive our banking services and 
operations and pressed on with our strategic transformation initiative, 
which afforded us greater operating resilience and customer service 
capabilities, particularly in the changing and uncertain environment.
 
As part of our strategic transformation initiative, we integrated our 
processing teams across branches and streamlined operating procedures 
to improve business efﬁciency and productivity.We kept the security and stability of our digital infrastructure at the 
highest  priority  given  the  increased  demand  for  digital  services.  In 
November 2020, we completed the local High Availability setup for our 
core banking systems. This ensures the robustness, service continuity and 
reliability of our systems and further strengthens our capabilities and 
resiliency in processing transactions at scale.In 2020, the UOB Group launched UOB Infinity for Wholesale Banking 
clients. First rolled out in Singapore, the solution offers a one-stop digital 
service for our clients to manage a range of domestic and cross-border 
banking activities and enables faster access and simplified transaction 
authorisation while also ensuring security. In China, we upgraded our 
systems to ensure it is ready for the rollout of UOB Inﬁnity in China in 2021.3233管理层报告
2020 in Review帮助我行员工成就不凡未来
Helping Our Colleagues Making a Meaning Difference2020 年，新冠肺炎疫情给中国乃至全球的企业带来了巨大的影响和挑战。这不仅对于员工的数字化管理、健康关爱防护和移动办公环境有
了更高要求，也将员工培训推上了时代风口。我行坚信发展的关键点在于人才升级，并利用互联网及数字学习平台等新兴技术为员工提供适应未来的所需技能。In 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic brought huge headwinds and challenges to companies in China and other parts of the world. Companies needed to put 
in place precautionary measures to protect their employees' health welfare and well-being, including offering remote work arrangements, as well as to 
accelerate their digital capabilities in the areas of training and development into the new era.At UOB, we see it as our duty to care for the professional and personal development of our people. Core to this is offering reskilling and upskilling opportunities 
to ensure our talents are future ready. We harness digital technologies to broaden access to learning resources and to maximise learning efﬁciency.关心员工职业和个人的成长Encouraging the professional and personal growth of our colleagues大华银行中国于 2020 年 5 月正式推出由大华银行集团自主开发的名
为 Better U 的全面技能进阶计划。Better U 为员工提供为期 12 周的
线上基础课程，由五大核心模块组成，包括鼓励成长型思维、培养
解决复杂问题的能力、掌握数字化意识创新、以人为本的流程设计
和用数据叙事，旨在帮助员工掌握未来行业发展所需的知识和能力。
该项目是首个获得新加坡银行与金融协会 (IBF) 认证的数字及软技能
提升项目。与此同时，为了激励“90 后”新生代员工的学习兴趣，养成学习习惯，
我行对学习活动进行了游戏化的包装和设计；学习氛围更是融入了
社交媒体式平台，通过提交短视频、分享心得、为平台内容点赞或
提供反馈等形式获得积分，再通过生成实时的积分排行榜缔造荣誉
效应，加强员工互动参与。In May 2020, UOB China launched Better U, UOB's Group-wide holistic 
learning and development programme. The programme comprises a 12-
week online foundation course consisting of ﬁve core modules, including 
Growth Mindset, Problem Solving, Digital Awareness, Human-Centred 
Design and Data Storytelling, to equip colleagues with the required 
knowledge and skills to stay relevant in the future. It is the ﬁrst training 
initiative that covers soft skills as well as digital and data skills accredited 
by the Institute of Banking and Finance Singapore (IBF).To ignite the learning interests of our Gen-Z colleagues and to ﬁt learning into 
their daily lives, Better U uses game-based learning. Colleagues are able to 
engage in different activities on the digital learning system that offers points, 
status and rewards as they improve their skills, posts short videos or share, like 
and comment on other's posts. A leaderboard on the digital learning system 
generates real-time points to encourage learning engagement.学员在手机上完成课程测试
A Better U participant is completing an online assessment on her mobile.学员在Better U启动仪式
Colleagues at the Better U kick-off session34“大中华区领导力发展项目”Level 1项目课程学员顺利完成所有课程并领取证书
UOB China colleagues presenting their certiﬁcates on the successful completion of 
the GCLA programme“大中华区领导力发展项目”Level 2项目课程学员合影
UOB Greater China Leadership Academy Level Two Programme截止到年底，我行共有 735 名员工完成了 Better U 基础课程，且获得
了来自大华银行与 IBF 联合颁发的认证证书。
 
秉持培养“数字化时代的卓越领导人才”的宗旨，2020 年我们持续
推行“大中华区领导力发展项目”，为大华银行中国、香港分行和台
北分行的高绩效、高潜质人才提供一个提升成长的平台。本年度，
共有 50  位的同事分别参加了 Level 1 和 Level 2  发展项目。我们在过
往课程基础上进行了大胆创新 , 为他们提供耳目一新的学习体验。“大中华区领导力发展项目”Level 1 项目课程，面向初级管理层级且
高绩效员工，以“提升自我认知和开发敏捷领导力”为主题，通过加
强自我认知，理解和掌握有效合作和问题解决的工具，帮助他们实
现从领导自我到领导他人的角色转换。项目首次引入了 “美式橄榄球”
运动，以一种别具一格的方式点燃了学员们“打造高绩效团队”的热
情并迅速拉近了彼此的距离。另外，为了加强课后实践应用，项目
也首次安排了每个学习模块的课后作业，并对每位学员的作业进行
反馈。“大中华区领导力发展项目”Level 2 项目课程，以“带领团队成长”为
主题，面向中层管理层级且高绩效员工，从“团队”、“赋能”和“创新”
三大模块入手，帮助团队管理者提升团队效能，构建商业创新和策
略思考的能力。项目首次与西浦国际商学院合作，用“实战比稿”代
替“案例学习”，以外企业的真实挑战为课题，以项目小组的形式，
与企业首席执行官就解决方案交换洞察，为大华银行赢取合作机会。At the end of 2020, 735 colleagues successfully completed the Better U 
foundation programme and obtained the certiﬁcate jointly issued by UOB 
and IBF.As part of nurturing the next generation of leaders, our high performing 
talents from mainland China, Hong Kong and Taipei participated in the 
Greater China Leadership Academy (GCLA) programme. This year, we 
offered a fresh take on the programme by introducing new learning 
modules. A total of 50 colleagues participated in Level One and Level 
Two courses.The GCLA Level One programme includes a five-day learning module 
themed "Agile and Aware Leadership" to help junior-level people managers 
progress from an individual contributor to a competent people manager. 
Participants complete various learning activities to develop self-awareness 
as well as effective collaboration and problem solving skills. For the 
first time, we introduced an American football game as an experiential 
learning approach to motivate participants to build high performing 
teams. In addition, to help participants apply the knowledge they learned, 
the trainers also arranged assignments and offered feedback on personal 
improvement.The GCLA Level Two programme, themed Leading Teams for Growth, 
is for middle-level people managers. It contains three modules namely 
Team, Empowerment and Innovation to enable managers to improve 
their skills in leading high-performing teams, to empower their teams 
to make smart decisions and to sharpen their innovative and strategic 
thinking. In partnership with International Business School Suzhou at Xi'an 
Jiaotong-Liverpool University, the programme includes immersive learning 
experiences such as developing real business pitches. The participants 
learned business challenges from two international companies, developed 
solutions and pitched their proposals to the CEOs of the companies as 
part of generating business opportunities for UOB.35管理层报告
2020 in Review本年度，我们也继续推动集团的高潜质人才发展项目 (Leadership 
Acceleration Programme)，为高绩效员工构建职业加速通道。我行共
提名了 23 位员工参加了这一项目的拓展日活动，以线上的方式进行，
通过领导力测评、角色扮演、商业模拟等模块，帮助参加者提升了
对个人领导力特质和综合能力的完整了解。2020 年，大华银行中国还于 10 月启动了跨部门导师学习项目。项目
为期 9 个月，包含学习导师和学员提名、结对、培养和评估工作，
通过搭建平台，利用经验丰富的资深管理者或技术专家，帮助员工
获取跨部门的知识技能，深化对协作创新的思考，从而提升员工的
综合能力和职业发展。共有来自前中后台 20 位优秀员工和 17 位导
师参加了此次项目。此外，我行一直重视年轻人才的培养与发展。2020 年我行大中华区
共有 14 名学员从管理培训生（管培生）项目中毕业并回到多个业务
部门继续在岗锻炼。同时我们也迎来了 14 位年轻新伙伴的加入，他
们已经正式进入我行的管培生项目。与往年不同的是，这次新加入
的管培生全部隶属于批发银行部，他们将在临近毕业阶段，才通过
双向选择的方式，决定最终隶属的部门。这意味着每一位管培生在
培训阶段将经历更多部门的轮岗，更全面地了解批发银行部的业务，
从而找到更适合他们的岗位，助力该部门业务发展。关爱员工2020 年，我行员工俱乐部与时俱进，改变传统线下健身模式，为员
工提供线上健身项目——专享 KEEP 会员卡，来覆盖全国员工的健身
需求。除此之外，我行还一并推出了涵盖医疗、家装、购车等相关
员工专享优惠活动，提升员工生活品质。We also continued with the Leadership Acceleration Programme, UOB's 
Group-wide programme to identify future leaders from within. A total of 
23 high-performing candidates with leadership potential across different 
functions joined a Virtual Development Day. They participated in different 
activities  including  leadership  assessments,  role-plays  and  business 
simulations,  which  assisted  them  in  gaining  a  holistic  view  of  their 
personal strengths and competencies.In 2020, UOB China launched the Cross-Function Mentoring Programme. 
The first nine-month programme started in October 2020. It aims to 
draw on the expertise of subject-matter experts to help colleagues 
deepen capabilities by acquiring cross-functional knowledge and skills, 
and strengthening cross-functional collaboration. The inaugural batch 
comprised 20 employees and 17 mentors from across the Bank.UOB  China  has  always  placed  great  importance  to  grooming  young 
talents. In 2020, 14 early-career talents across markets in Greater China 
graduated from the Management Associate (MA) Programme and settled 
in various business units to continue with their career development. 
We also welcomed 14 new young partners joining the MA Programme. 
Different from MAs in previous years, the new MAs were recruited to 
meet UOB China Wholesale Banking's need for a pool of talents. The 
programme will match the MAs with business departments based upon 
each other's choice once the MA completes the programme. This means 
that every MA will be exposed to more business departments through 
rotation and develop in-depth understanding of the Bank's Wholesale 
Banking business. This will help them determine their career path and 
contribute to the business development of the department they select.Caring for our colleaguesTo  help  colleagues  maintain  their  work-life  harmony  and  personal 
wellness, UOB China Staff Club collaborated with KEEP, an online ﬁtness 
app, to provide colleagues VIP access to online gym classes in 2020. We 
also offered exclusive staff deals and privileges covering medical care 
and insurance plans, as well as home furnishing and car discounts to all 
colleagues.专注在艺术、儿童及教育领域，点亮心灵，启迪方向
Opening Minds and Hearts to Build an Inclusive Society through Art, Children and Education造福社会、回馈社区是我行一贯坚持的宗旨。我们通过大华银行的 UOB Heartbeat 系列公益项目，积极履行企业社会责任。UOB Heartbeat 系列项目，依托公益合
作、企业捐助及员工参与三大渠道，回馈大众，推动社会可持续发展。秉承诚信、进取、齐心、担当的企业价值观，
我们凝聚员工、客户及合作伙伴的力量，共同为社区带来积极的转变。我行专注于推动艺术、儿童及教育领域的发展，因为我们坚信这三大领域对于社会的高质量发展至关重要。Enriching lives and strengthening societal bonds in our communities are fundamental to our business philosophy.At UOB, our corporate social responsibility (CSR) efforts from across the Group come together under the UOB Heartbeat CSR 
programme. The programme aims to create sustainable good for a more caring and inclusive society through corporate philanthropy, 
stakeholder partnerships and employee participation. Guided by our values of Honour, Enterprise, Unity and Commitment, we draw 
together our colleagues, customers and ecosystem partners to make a positive difference to our communities.We focus on three areas which we believe are essential for the quality and progress of society: art, children and education.让艺术点亮心灵Making art accessible to all during trying times今年，突如其来的疫情和一系列变化，打乱了所有人工作和生活的
脚步，很多艺术活动也因此遭到冲击。越是艰难的时刻，我们越需
要正能量来点亮心灵，照亮彼此。因此，我行于 2020 年继续推出“大
华银行艺术季”，开展一系列线上线下项目，让艺术的力量和温暖走
入千家万户。As the world continues to battle COVID-19, we need art more than ever to 
connect and to open hearts and minds to inspire resilience and creativity 
as well as promote mental well-being. This year, UOB China hosted UOB 
Art Season for the second year encompassing several art programmes 
virtually and physically to make art accessible to all.大华银行艺术探索UOB Art Explorer2020 年，我行引入了大华银行集团的线上艺术项目“大华银行艺术
探索”。该项目借助大华银行在亚洲的艺术资源，针对疫情而特别制
作。它由大华银行“艺享家”、大华银行“爱无界”在线艺术展及艺术
创作疗愈三大板块组成，为人们带来宝贵的居家艺术创作、艺术作
品欣赏和心灵疗愈资源。其中，大华银行“爱无界”艺术展，是我行举办的首个在线画展，展
示了包括 “大华银行年度绘画大赛”和“大华银行年度水墨艺术大奖”
的获奖者在内的亚洲艺术家们在疫情期间的创作。公众可以通过登录“UOB and Art” 微信小程序，参与“大华银行艺术
探索”丰富多彩的项目。UOB  China  introduced  the  UOB  Art  Explorer,  an  online  visual  arts 
programme  to  help  the  public  learn  and  explore  art  through  a 
comprehensive series of art tutorials (Art At Home), art therapy sessions 
(Art As Therapy), and virtual exhibitions (Art Virtually).In 2020, we launched our first online art exhibition, Art Virtually, enabling 
viewers to appreciate winning artworks from UOB Painting of the Year and UOB 
Art in Ink winning artists across the region on our virtual UOB Art Gallery.To provide greater access to our art programmes, digital contents from 
the UOB Art Explorer are made available on UOB and Art WeChat Mini 
Programme.扫描二维码，了解“大华银行艺术探索”项目内容
Scan this code to access our WeChat programme3637管理层报告
2020 in Review云南省西盟县永邦“未来希望幼儿班”的学生们收到绘画簿后，
一起进行艺术创作
Students at Yongbang preschool in Yunnan Province diving into art making 
with their new sketch books为鼓励公众参与艺术活动、分享创作心得，我们也邀请网友在观看
大华银行“艺享家”创作课堂后在小程序上传自己的作品，或为其他
人上传作品点赞。同时携手黄奕聪慈善基金会，代表每个点赞互动
的网友，为山区小朋友捐赠一本绘画簿。截至目前，我们已携手该
基金会向云南偏远地区小学及幼儿班捐赠 1,200 本绘画簿。UOB China partnered with Huang Yi Cong Foundation to encourage 
the public to participate and submit their artwork entries on the mini-
programme after watching the Art At Home series. The Foundation also 
donated one sketch book for every engagement of WeChat Fans. To date, a 
total of 1,200 sketch books were donated to children living in remote areas.FutureLab 教博会2020 FutureLab作为“大华银行艺术季”的线下重头活动，我行连续第二年作为首席
合作伙伴亮相 FutureLab 艺术与设计创新未来教育博览会（教博会）。
教博会是全球首创的，以探讨艺术与设计教育最新实践为主旨的国
际交流平台。此次盛会，在我行所呈现的多功能艺术空间，公众可以看到“大华银
行艺术探索”项目不同板块的线下展示；我们也与青年艺术家、教
育家、乡村美育公益机构和专业人士开展跨界对话，同时还邀请大
华银行年度绘画大赛获奖艺术家蔡志美和胡婧璇举办了 6 场艺术工
作坊，让大中小院校的学生都可以体验艺术创作的乐趣和陶冶心灵的
力量。This year, we continue to be the Lead Partner at the Art and Design 
Education: FutureLab,  for the second consecutive year. FutureLab is 
China's ﬁrst and only international art and design exposition targeted at 
students pursuing art as a career.We hosted the UOB Art Space and curated a series of art activities, 
including  UOB  Art  Explorer,  forums,  dialogues,  art  workshops  and 
exhibitions. We also collaborated with UOB POY (Singapore) artists, Ms 
Hu Jingxuan and Ms Yoko Choi, to organise six workshops on art making 
and art as therapy.“共创美育新未来”行动计划启动仪式
Extending our reach through partnerships at the launch ceremony第一财经公益基金会美育课堂上，学生习作大华银行“艺享家”创作课程
Beneﬁciaries of our joint programme with Yicai Foundation learnt to paint their world 
through Art at Home tutorials共创美育新未来'Forging a Sustainable Future for Art Education' initiative我行与教博会、陆家嘴金融城发展基金会、上海联劝公益基金会、
第一财经公益基金会、禾邻社和脑米诺等多家机构联合启动了“共创
美育新未来”行动计划，针对乡村、欠发达地区和都市有需要的群体
打造不同的艺术创作或疗愈项目，携手提升社会各界对美育的理解
度和接受度，共兴美育资源、共创美育未来、共赏美丽世界。作为首批启动项目，大华银行中国将和禾邻社、第一财经公益基金
会分别合作推出针对云南乡村地区儿童的乡村美育计划；大华银行
也将以其位于陆家嘴的大华银行艺术画廊为美育实践基地，携手陆
家嘴金融城发展基金会推出针对陆家嘴地区打工人的都市美育系列
活动。关注儿童健康成长唯有书香以致远阅读不仅能够开拓视野，在特别时期，更有治愈的力量，让阅读者
更坚强从容地去面对世界。因此，我行积极支持由爱德基金会和南
京市亲近母语公益发展中心发起的“乡村儿童的书香校园” 项目，让
孩子的成长不再“孤读”。To make art accessible for all, we collaborated  with six community 
partners to launch the 'Forging a Sustainable Future for Art Education' 
initiative. They include FutureLab, Lujiazui Financial City Development 
Foundation,  Nomena  Art,  Shanghai  Helin  Art  Promotion  Institution, 
Shanghai  United  Foundation  and  Yicai  Foundation.  Different  art 
programmes  were  developed  for  a  common  goal  –  to  promote  art 
education and to inspire the next generation of artists, especially among 
children from disadvantaged backgrounds. UOB China will progressively 
launch art programmes for children living in rural villages (Art for Rural 
Children) and urban workers (Art for Urban Workers).We  collaborated  with  Shanghai  Helin  Art  Promotion  Institution,  a 
Shanghai-based non-profit public art institution, to promote art and 
improve the quality of art education in remote areas in Yunnan as well as 
Yicai Foundation, to provide online art tutorials for two schools in Yunan. 
To raise appreciation for art, we also partnered Lujiazui Financial City 
Development Foundation, to provide a series of art activities to office 
workers, children and the public in Lujiazui area.Developing young mindsRead for GoodIn 2020, UOB China collaborated with Hug Chinese Philanthropy and 
Amity Foundation to launch the Read for Good programme to promote 
literacy development among early readers in rural villages.观众驻足欣赏大华银行“爱无界”艺术展的线下作品展示
A visitor appreciating the exhibited artworks at the UOB Art Space青年艺术家胡婧璇在工作坊现场指导学生进行珐琅艺术创作
Ms Hu Jingxuan guided students in cloisonné making at one of the art workshops.3839管理层报告
2020 in Review该项目旨在为云南省怒江泸水县大兴地镇的五所乡村小学近 1,600 名
学生进行班级图书角的书本采购。为了让孩子们培养健康卫生的习
惯，并从阅读中更深刻地去理解世界，我们还特别为孩子们增添卫
生防疫的科普类书籍和心灵成长、疗愈书籍。同时项目也将为当地
108 位教师提供专业培训等支持。The programme aimed to provide books for close to 1,600 disadvantaged 
children across ﬁve schools in the Yunnan Province. To ensure these books 
are relevant during this pandemic, we also worked closely with charity 
partners to select genres on hygiene, health and positive mindsets. Hug 
Chinese Philanthropy would also train 108 teachers in schools over 12 
months to coach and assist children in reading.为未来播种希望我们积极支持上海互济公益基金会“未来希望幼儿班”项目，为更多偏
远地区留守儿童提供学前教育和自我发展的机会。通过上海互济公益基金会，我们资助位于云南省普洱市西盟县的未
来希望幼儿班，包括资助 30 名学生的教育经费和教学设备，资助当
地教师培训和优质教学活动开展及资料的开发。各类募捐志愿活动，汇聚各方爱心本年度，大华银行中国通过多项筹款活动，为 UOB Heartbeat 新冠肺
炎援助基金募集善款近 16 万元人民币，用于帮助受疫情影响的儿童、
家庭以及有需要的群体。今年，我行第九年在中国举办集团标志性公益活动大华银行“爱心公
益跑 / 行”。由于疫情的特殊环境，今年这一活动由线下改为线上，
邀请员工及家人上传日常运动里程。每完成一公里，大华银行为
UOB Heartbeat 新冠肺炎援助基金做出相应捐赠。我行同事和其他 17
个国家及地区的同事们共同完成 20 万公里的总目标。此外，“乡村儿童的书香校园”公益活动，还首次入驻腾讯公益，邀
请全社会爱心人士，参与公益捐款。同时，公众也可以通过上传自
己的微信运动步数，参与公益捐步。活动中，总共有 6,655 人次捐出
了 2.5 亿步，我行也做出相应款项捐赠。Preschools of the FutureThrough  a  partnership  with  Shanghai  Huji  Foundation,  a  non-profit 
organisation founded by entrepreneurs in Shanghai, we supported the 
'Preschools of the Future' programme in improving quality of preschool 
education in rural China.This initiative included supporting a kindergarten in Pu'er, in Ximeng 
County,  Yunnan  Province,  through  the  funding  of  education  for  30 
children, and through systematic management and professional guidance 
for teachers and local village committees.Uniting our hearts through our fundraising and volunteering effortsIn support of the 2020 UOB Heartbeat COVID-19 Relief Fund, we helped 
vulnerable and affected communities by raising a total of RMB160,000.This year marks our ninth year participating in the UOB Heartbeat Run/
Walk, our annual ﬂagship regional volunteering and fundraising event. Even 
though we were unable to meet physically for this event, our colleagues 
and families walked or ran distances for charity, on an own-time, own-
target basis before logging their achievements on their preferred smart 
device. For every kilometre clocked, UOB Group will donate S$1 to the 
UOB Heartbeat COVID-19 Relief Fund. As a Group, UOB  accumulated 
more than 200,000 km across 18 markets.We launched a similar fundraiser in China through Tencent Gongyi, a 
crowdfunding site for charitable giving on our WeChat mini programme, 
in support of our Read for Good programme. Our colleagues, WeChat 
fans, partners and the public were invited to clock steps through their 
WeChat sports accounts. We matched donations for every step clocked 
and achieved more than 250,000,000 steps from 6,655 participants.我行企业银行部主管辛韬及交易银行部主管袁泉担任爱心主播，
为同事们介绍爱心产品
Ms Cynthia Xin, Head of Corporate Banking, UOB China and Mr Albert Yuan, Head 
of Transaction Banking, UOB China hosted the live stream charity sale event.除了在员工内部举行运动、捐款、义卖等形式多样的募集善款活动外，
我行还首次推出爱心直播。通过爱心主播带货，向员工介绍我行企
业客户和高管赞助的爱心产品，为公益活动募资。Besides sports, online bazaar and staff donations, we also hosted our 
ﬁrst live streaming charity sale for all colleagues in China. All items were 
donated by our clients, and senior management.11 月，我行各地同事踊跃参与了“亲近母语，让爱延续”的公益捐书
活动，为“乡村儿童的书香校园”捐赠了近 300 本书籍。以环保的形
式循环利用书籍，让有需要的孩子们在传阅同时加深母语认知、传
播知识、传递爱心。除了为慈善捐款捐物，我行同事也积极组织并参与各类公益活动。例如，我行商业银行部的同事们每年都利用春节的契机，深入社区，
开展公益活动。2020 春节前，我行大湾区同事走进深圳华阳特殊儿
童康复中心，为那里的孩子带去温暖，而我行总行与上海分行商业
银行部的志愿者也来到上海浦东新区菊园幼儿园，为那里的小朋友
带来一场生动的财商公益课。Our  colleagues  also  donated  close  to  300  books  donated  for  early 
readers.Besides monetary contribution, our colleagues  unite  as one  to  give 
their time, skills and service to help build strong, inclusive and caring 
communities.Before the pandemic hit, our Commercial Banking colleagues continued 
their Lunar New Year community outreach with a festive celebration 
for children from Huayang Special Children Care Centre in Shenzhen. 
Colleagues in Shanghai also facilitated an interactive and educational 
financial literacy session with children from Ju Yuan kindergarten in 
Pudong District.我们在腾讯公益邀请公众为爱“益”起走，为“乡村儿童的书香校园”筹集善款
Keeping the Good Going through Tencent Gongyi on WeChat40我行公益志愿者与深圳华阳特殊儿童康复中心的孩子们欢聚一堂
Our volunteer engaging with a beneficiary from Huayang Special Children Care 
Centre in Shenzhen我行公益志愿者通过游戏向菊园幼儿园孩子们教授理财小知识
Our volunteers taught children the value of money through an interactive game.41管理层报告
2020 in Review增强金融教育，保护消费者权益Promoting ﬁnancial literacy and enhancing consumer protection and fair dealing为扎实践行国家“以人民为中心”的发展思想，我行也秉承“以客户为
中心，事无巨细地为客户提供服务”的理念，在 2020 年继续落实消
费者权益保护工作，进一步健全金融知识宣传教育长效机制，有效
提升金融知识宣传教育质效。With our customers' interests at the heart of what we do, we seek to 
create solutions that help them manage their daily and future needs, 
however  simple  or  complex.  One  of  the  ways  we  do  this  is  being 
committed to fair dealing and raising awareness of ﬁnancial knowledge.2020 年，为响应国家疫情防控的号召，避免人员聚集，我行充分利
用互联网线上媒体的优势，将全年的消保活动宣传的重心从线下转
移到了线上。通过官方网站、微信公众号、直销银行、营业网点等
多渠道向消费者普及金融知识，加大宣教辐射力度。我行通过“以案
说险”的形式，以漫画故事、微视频、互动游戏等数字化宣传手段，
开展多样化的线上教育活动，帮助广大消费者快速掌握金融知识，
防范金融风险。我行全年开展公众宣传教育共 140 场，涉及员工共
834 人次，消费者逾 11 万人次。“3·15”消费者权益日前夕，我行自主设计并推出了“‘鼠’你有财”线
上互动答题游戏，让消费者在玩手机游戏叠叠乐的同时，参与消保
知识答题互动，此类轻松活泼、喜闻乐见的形式，一经推出就吸引
了众多消费者的关注、参与和好评。活动期间，答题人数共计超过
2,500。In 2020, we conducted consumer protection promotions online during 
COVID-19 pandemic. We developed comic strips, short videos, interactive 
games  and  other  engaging  online  content  to  provide  and  engage 
consumers  with  information  to  make  informed  choices  about  their 
ﬁnancial activities through the Bank's ofﬁcial website, WeChat accounts, 
digital bank and branches. A total of 140 activities were carried out with 
834 colleagues and close to 111,000 consumers participated.In line with World Consumer Rights Day, the Bank launched an interactive 
digital game on WeChat, where consumers attempt questions relating 
to  consumer  rights.  With  its  creative  and  interactive  design,  the 
game attracted more than 2,500 participants, and helped deepen an 
understanding on financial security and risk awareness on consumers' 
independent rights.2020 年度，我行共受理客户投诉 68 起，其中 65 起为个人银行业务，
3 起为批发银行业务，涉及上海、北京、沈阳、广州地区。在投诉处
理及调解工作中，我们积极采取独立、迅速和有效的投诉处理机制，
致力于提升整体客户满意度。投诉处理率为 100%。因此，我行 2020 年 11 月在上海市金融消费纠纷调解中心“年度金
调之星评选”中获得了 “金融消费纠纷调解促进奖” 及“金调风采故
事”奖。In 2020, the Bank received 68 customer complaints, including 65 retail 
banking and three wholesale banking complaints across Shanghai, Beijing, 
Shenyang and Guangzhou. Our commitment to service excellence extends 
to our customer resolution process and how we manage our customers' 
complaints. At UOB China, we treat our customers fairly and provide them 
with an independent and objective resolution process to help resolve all 
complaints effectively and swiftly. 100 per cent of customer complaints 
were addressed according to the established process and within timeline.这些荣誉是对我行投诉处理及调解工作的高度肯定，我行定将再接
再厉，以公平、公正的态度保护消费者的合法权益。In providing responsive complaint handling driven by values of trust, 
transparency, respect and confidence, we received two awards at the 
Financial Dispute Resolution Golden Star Awards organised by Financial 
Ombudsman Service Shanghai.We continue to remain committed to maintaining the highest standards 
on fair dealing and do what is right and fair for our customers.“‘鼠’你有财”线上互动答题游戏界面
The interface of the online interactive game to create awareness on consumer rights4243管理层报告
2020 in Review奖项及荣誉 
Awards and Accolades2020 第一财经金融价值榜 — 第一财经集团•  最佳跨境金融服务外资银行2019 China Financial Value Ranking - Yicai Media Group•  Foreign Bank of the Year for Cross-border Financial Services2020 Triple A 资金、贸易、供应链及风险管理奖 — 《财资》•  最佳银行家奖（中国） — 最佳流动性管理服务提供者
•  最佳流动资金及投资解决方案（中国） — 通讯、工业、The Triple A Awards 2020 - Treasury, Trade Supply Chain and Risk 
Management - The Asset•  Best Banks in China - Best Service Provider in Liquidity汽车领域五项案例奖•  最佳收付款解决方案（中国） — 金融服务领域案例奖2020 年度银行家之选 — 《亚洲银行家》•  中国最佳金融供应链管理Management•  Best Liquidity and Investments Solutions 
•  Best Payments and Collections SolutionsThe Asian Banker China Awards 2020 - The Asian Banker•  Banker's Choice Awards – Best Financial Supply ChainManagement in China2020 年亚当 . 斯密奖（亚洲区） —  《今日资金管理》Adam Smith Awards Asia 2020 - Treasury Today•  最佳流动性管理解决方案高度推荐奖2019 年度上海市金融创新奖 — 上海市政府•  金融创新成果奖三等奖 — “东南亚货币一站式”服务2020 年上期标准仓单交易平台优秀交易商 —上海期货交易所•  优秀金融机构•  Best Liquidity Management Solution - Highly Recommended2019 Shanghai Financial Innovation Awards - Shanghai Municipal 
People's Government•  Third prize - ASEAN Currency One-stop Service2020 SHFE standard warehouse warrant trading system - Shanghai 
Futures Exchange2020 年 上海期货交易所会员评优•  市场进步奖2020 SRP 中国大奖 — 欧洲货币机构投资者集团旗下 SRP 数据库•  最佳国际交易机构 （在岸）
•  最佳产品销售（非本地银行）
•  最佳产品表现（非本地银行）•  Best trading member2020 Shanghai Futures Exchange•  Best progress award2020 Structured Retail Products (SRP) China Awards - SRP, a part of 
Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC•  Best international House (Onshore)
•  Best Distributor, Non-Domestic Bank
•  Best Performance, Non-Domestic Bank2020 国际先锋理财机构评选榜单 —《国际金融报》2020 Pioneer Financial Institution Awards - International Financial News•  先锋零售银行•  Pioneer Retail Bank大华银行中国荣获第一财经授予的最佳跨境金融服务外资银行奖项，大华银
行中国批发银行部主管郑濬女士（左二 ）代表我行领奖
UOB China was honoured Foreign Bank of the Year for Cross-border Financial 
Services and Ms Adaline Zheng, Head of Wholesale Banking, UOB China (second 
from the left) received the award presented by Yicai Media Group.大华银行中国在《财资》Triple A 资金、贸易、供应链及风险管理奖评选中，
斩获七个奖项。我行交易部主管袁泉先生出席颁奖典礼
UOB China won seven awards in Treasury, Trade Supply Chain and Risk Management 
at the Triple A Awards 2020. Mr Albert Yuan, Head of Transaction Banking attended 
the award ceremony to receive the awards.44大华银行中国个人金融服务部主管林培丰先生（右）出席GAAF第五届全球
资产配置决策者峰会并领取 “全球资产配置客户服务卓越奖”
Mr Winston Lim, Head of Personal Financial Services, UOB China (right) received the 
Outstanding Award for Customer Service of Global Asset Allocation at Global Asset 
Allocation Awards 2020.大华银行中国个人金融服务部零售业务销售主管周波先生（右二）代表我行
领取《国际金融报》授予的“2020先锋零售银行”奖项
Mr Paul Zhou, Head of Sales and Distribution, Personal Financial Services, UOB 
China (second from the right) received the Pioneer Retail Bank Award presented by 
International Financial News.我行在2020中国年度最佳雇主评选中蝉联最佳雇主百强和最受女性关注雇主
两项大奖，大华银行大中华区人力资源主管洪晓燕女士出席典礼并领奖
Ms Amy Hong, Head of Human Resources, UOB Greater China receiving Top 100 
China Best Employers and Best Employers for Female Employees at 2020 China Best 
Employer Awards大华银行中国策略通讯与品牌部主管付玥女士（左六）代表我行出席2020跨
国企业社会责任颁奖典礼创新领取创新杰出贡献奖
Ms Sabrina Fu, Head of Strategic Communications and Brand, UOB China (sixth from 
left) receiving Excellence Award in Innovation at the ceremony of Excellence Awards 
for Corporate Social Responsibility2020 全球资产配置决策者峰会 — 决策者集团及决策者金融研究院•  全球资产配置客户服务卓越奖上海市支付清算系统运行维护工作先进单位 
— 中国人民银行上海分行
2020 中国年度最佳雇主 — 智联招聘•  最佳雇主 100 强
•  最受女性关注雇主2020 中国典范雇主 — 前程无忧•  典范雇主 100 强
•  人力资源数字化管理典范2020 非凡雇主 — 猎聘•  华东区变革非凡雇主2020 跨国企业社会责任奖 —《上海日报》•  创新杰出贡献奖Global Asset Allocation Awards 2020 - China Decision Makers 
Consultancy (CDMC) Group and CDMC Institute•  Outstanding Award for Customer Service of Global AssetAllocationAdvanced Unit Award Recognition for the Shanghai Municipal 
Clearing System - People's Bank of China Shanghai 
2020 China Best Employer Awards -Zhaopin.com•  Top 100 China Best Employers
•  Best Employers for Female EmployeesExcellence China Awards 2020 - 51job.com 
100 Employer Excellence of China• 
•  Excellence in Digital HR Management PracticesWork Different Awards 2020 - Liepin.com•  Extraordinary Transformation Employer Award (Eastern China)2020 Excellence Awards for Corporate Social Responsibility - 
Shanghai Daily•  Excellence Award in Innovation45公司治理
Corporate Governance大华银行中国始终坚持最高的公司治理标准并就此严格遵守《中华
人民共和国公司法》、《中华人民共和国商业银行法》、《中华人
民共和国外资银行管理条例》及其实施细则等相关监管要求。我行董事会及其下设专业委员会、监事、高级管理层按照相关法律
法规和《大华银行（中国）有限公司章程》（以下简称《公司章程》）
所赋予的职责，依法独立履行各自的权利与义务。关于董事与董事会董事会现有五名董事，其中独立董事两名。董事会的人数、构成符
合监管要求和《公司章程》的规定。现任董事会成员名单及其职务
如下：UOB China is committed to upholding good corporate governance and isguided by the following in this regard:a)  the People's Republic of China (PRC) Company Law;
b)  the PRC Commercial Bank Law;
c)  the PRC Regulations on Administration of  Foreign-Funded Banks and 
the Rules for Implementing the PRC Regulations on Administration of 
Foreign-Funded Banks; andd)  other relevant regulatory requirements.The Board of Directors (Board), Board Committees, the Supervisors and 
Senior Management perform their respective duties according to the laws 
and regulations of the country and the provisions in the Bank's Articles of 
Association.Board of DirectorsThe current Board comprises ﬁve members, two of whom are independent 
directors. The size and composition of the Board comply with regulatory 
requirements and the provisions in the Bank's Articles of Association. 
Details of the Board members are shown in the table below:姓名
Name黄一宗
Wee Ee Cheong性别
Gender男
Male年龄
Age68符懋赞
Peter Foo Moo Tan男
Male叶杨诗明
Christine Ip刘二飞
Liu Erh Fei吴玉华
Wu Yu Hua女
Female男
Male男
Male58576262职务
Position本届任期
Current Term of Ofﬁce董事长 / 非执行非独立董事
Chairman/Non-executive and non-independent 
director2019 年 9 月 17 日至 2022 年 9 月 16 日
From 17 September 2019 to 16 September 2022执行非独立董事 ( 行长兼首席执行官 )
Executive and non-independent director (President 
and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer)2019 年 10 月 28 日至 2022 年 10 月 27 日
From 28 October 2019 to 27 October 2022非执行非独立董事
Non-executive and non-independent director2020 年 7 月 12 日至 2023 年 7 月 11 日
From 12 July 2020 to 11 July 2023独立董事
Independent director独立董事
Independent director2019 年 11 月 16 日至 2022 年 11 月 15 日
From 16 November 2019 to 15 November 20222018 年 8 月 29 日至 2021 年 6 月 5 日
From 29 August 2018 to 5 June 2021董事会的主要职能如下：The main responsibilities of the Board are to:•  为银行指明战略方向，批准银行战略发展方案，批准银行的经营计划和年度预算及绩效考核指标；•  确定银行的环境、社会及治理关键影响因素，要考虑到发展战略
的可持续性，包括重大的环境、社会及治理因素，并监督重大的
环境、社会及治理情况的管理及监控；•  审核并监督银行的业务及财务表现以及批准银行真实公允的财务决算方案；46•  provide strategic directions, approve strategic business initiatives, and 
approve business plans, annual budget and key performance indicators;
•  To determine the environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors 
that are material to the Bank, consider sustainability issues, including 
material ESG factors, in formulating its strategies, and oversee the 
management and monitoring of the material ESG factors;
review and monitor the business and financial performance of the 
Bank, and approve true and fair ﬁnancial statements;••  决定银行的资本负债结构；
•  设定股息分配方案以及宣告股息；
•  筹划董事会和高级管理层的继任事宜；
•  确保高效的管理团队；
•  监督建立全面的、针对各种风险类型的风险管理政策、程序和基础设施 ( 包括业务外包风险 )；•  决定银行的风险容忍度、风险偏好、风险状况并核准相关信贷审批限额；•  审核并监督银行的风险管理、内部审计和合规部门职能的履行，并确保对其资源配置的充分性；•  评价行长 / 首席执行官以及高级管理层的工作表现；
•  确保管理层制订适当的政策及程序以避免为自己谋取不正当利益的情况或其它利益冲突的产生；•  审查并核准银行的有关关联交易的控制体系；
•  建立公司文化、价值观和道德标准；
•  审查银行的信息披露政策并对所披露信息的真实性、准确性和完整性负责；•  审议及批准董事会及其下属委员会架构及议事规程；
•  审议并向股东建议董事费；
•  向股东报告；及
•  履行股东授予的其他职权和法律、法规以及银行章程要求的其他职权。董事会每年召开四次定期会议，并在需要时召开临时董事会议。2020 年，我行共召开董事会会议四次，会议均达到法定最低出席人数。根据银行章程的规定，董事会还可通过传签的方式做出决议。2020 年，我行董事会还通过传签的方式，做出了三项决议。会议的召集程序、出席人数、议事程序、表决程序、董事会决议的
作出程序及其内容等各方面均符合中华人民共和国有关法律法规和
《公司章程》的有关要求。所有董事会会议记录及传签决议由我行
董事会秘书保存。set dividend policy and declare dividends;•  determine an appropriate capital/debt structure;
• 
•  perform succession planning for the Board and Senior Management;
•  put in place an effective management team;
•  oversee  the  establishment  of  comprehensive  risk  management 
policies, processes and infrastructure to manage various types of risk 
(including outsourcing risk);•  determine the risk tolerance, risk appetite and risk proﬁle of the Bank•and approve credit discretionary limits;
review  and  monitor  the  risk  management,  internal  audit  and 
compliance functions and ensure that these functions are adequately 
resourced;•  evaluate the performance of the President and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer(CEO) and Senior Management;•  ensure that Management establishes appropriate procedures and 
processes to avoid situations that may give rise to improper personal 
gains or conﬂicts of interests;
review  and  approve  the  Bank's  system  of  controls  relating  to 
connected transactions;
set corporate culture, values and ethical standards;
review the Bank's information disclosure policy and be responsible for 
the authenticity, accuracy and integrity of the information disclosed;
review and approve the composition and terms of reference of the 
Board and Board committees;• 
•••report to the shareholder; and•  endorse directors' fees for recommendation to the shareholder;
• 
•  exercise such other power as authorised by the shareholder and 
perform such other functions as required by the laws, regulations and 
the Bank's Articles of Association.The Board meets at least four times a year. Additional Board meetings 
would be convened whenever necessary.In 2020, the Board held four meetings. The quorum for each meeting was met.The Bank's Articles of Association also provide for the Board to make 
decisions by way of circular resolutions.The Board passed three resolutions by way of circulation in 2020.The procedures for convening Board meetings, the quorum required 
for constituting the meetings, the proceedings at the meetings, and the 
procedures for voting and passing of resolutions were in compliance with 
the requirements of applicable PRC laws and regulations and the Bank's 
Articles of Association. The minutes of all Board meetings and circular 
resolutions are properly maintained by the Company Secretary.47公司治理
Corporate Governance关于董事会下设专业委员会Board Committees大华银行中国董事会目前下设五个专业委员会，即：执行委员会、
关联交易控制委员会、审计委员会、提名及薪酬委员会和董事会风
险管理委员会。(1) 执行委员会
a.  委员会成员：黄一宗先生（主席）、符懋赞先生、叶杨诗明女士。The Board has delegated specific functions to five Board Committees, 
namely, Executive Committee (EXCO), Connected Transactions Control 
Committee (CTCC), Audit Committee (AC), Nominating and Remuneration 
Committee (NRC) and Board Risk Management Committee (BRMC).(1) Executive Committee
a.  The EXCO members are Mr Wee Ee Cheong (Chairman), Mr Peter Foob.  执行委员会的主要职能如下：Moo Tan and Mrs Christine Ip.•  管理银行的营运，包括制定内部制度、业务发展策略，监督银行业务计划的执行，批准相关的信贷额度；及b.  The EXCO oversees the following matters:•  处理除行长兼首席执行官及副行长以外的银行人力资源管理事项。c.  2020 年，执行委员会召开会议 1 次。•  the  Bank's  business  operations,  including  formulating  internal 
policies  and  business  strategies,  monitoring  the  execution  of 
business plans and approving relevant credit limits; and•  human  resource  matters,  except  for  those  pertaining  to  thePresident and CEO and Deputy President.(2) 关联交易控制委员会
a.  委员会成员：吴玉华先生（主席），叶杨诗明女士，刘二飞先生。c.  The EXCO held one meeting in 2020.b.  关联交易控制委员会的主要职能如下：•  建立并执行关联交易管理制度；
•  管理关联交易并控制由此而生的风险；
•  审查一般关联交易；及
•  审核重大关联交易并提交董事会批准。c.  2020 年，关联交易控制委员共召开会议一次。d.  2020 年，关联交易控制委员还通过传签的方式，做出了一项决议。(2) Connected Transactions Control Committee
a.  The CTCC members are Mr Wu Yu Hua (Chairman), Mrs Christine Ipand Mr Liu Erh Fei.b.  The CTCC's main responsibilities are to:•  establish the framework for managing connected transactions;
•  oversee the management of connected transactions and associated risks;
• 
•review non-material connected transactions; and
review and submit material connected transactions to the Board 
for approval.c.  The CTCC held one meeting in 2020.d.  The CTCC passed one resolution by way of circulation in 2020.(3) 审计委员会
a.  委员会成员：刘二飞先生 ( 主席 )、叶杨诗明女士、吴玉华先生。(3) Audit Committee
a.  The AC members are Mr Liu Erh Fei (Chairman), Mrs Christine Ip andMr Wu Yu Hua.b.  审计委员会的主要职能为审议 / 监督以下相关事宜：•  财务报告，内部、外部审计计划及报告；
•  内部会计控制及重大内部控制的充分性；
•  内部及外部审计的范围及结果；
•  有关会计准则或会计实务的质量及重大变化；
•  内部审计资源的充分性；
•  内部审计及外部审计的重大发现；
•  全面治理框架的建立，包括管理欺诈风险和举报安排的政策和程序；•  批准外部审计费用；及
•  外部审计机构及内部审计部门负责人的提名。c.  2020 年，审计委员会共召开会议四次。(4) 提名及薪酬委员会
a.  委员会成员：刘二飞先生（主席），黄一宗先生，吴玉华先生，叶杨诗明女士。b.  提名及薪酬委员会的主要职能如下：•  就董事会及其下属专业委员会推荐候选人；
•  设计董事、主要高级管理人员（包含行长兼首席执行官以及副行长）的薪酬结构并报董事会批准；及•  建立一套正规的机制以评价董事会的整体效率，董事会下设各b.  The  AC's  main  responsibilities  are  to  review/oversee  all  mattersrelating to:
•financial statements, and internal and external audit plans and 
reports;•  the adequacy of internal accounting controls and material internalcontrols;•  the scope and results of internal and external audits;
•  the quality of, and any signiﬁcant change in, accounting policies orpractices;•  the adequacy of internal audit resources;
•  signiﬁcant ﬁndings from internal and external auditors;
•  the establishment of a comprehensive governance framework, 
including  policy  and  process  for  managing  fraud  risk  and 
whistleblowing arrangement;•  the approval of external auditor's fees; and
•  the nomination of the external auditor and the head of the internalaudit function.c.  The AC held four meetings in 2020.(4) Nominating and Remuneration Committee
a.  The NRC members are Mr Liu Erh Fei (Chairman), Mr Wee Ee Cheong,委员会及董事的贡献。Mr Wu Yu Hua and Mrs Christine Ip.c.  2020 年，提名及薪酬委员会召开会议一次。b.  The NRC's main responsibilities are to:d.  2020 年，提名及薪酬委员会还通过传签的方式，做出了一项决议。••recommend nominees for appointment to the Board and Board 
Committees;
recommend a framework for the remuneration of directors and 
key senior executives (including the President and CEO and Deputy 
President) for the Board's approval; and•  establish  a  mechanism  for  the  formal  assessment  of  the 
effectiveness of the Board as a whole, the contribution of the 
various Board Committees and individual directors.c.  The NRC held one meeting in 2020.d.  The NRC passed one resolution by way of circulation in 2020.4849公司治理
Corporate Governance(5) 董事会风险管理委员会
a.  委员会成员：叶杨诗明女士（主席）、吴玉华先生、刘二飞先生。(5) Board Risk Management Committee
a.  The BRMC members are Mrs Christine Ip (Chairman), Mr Wu Yu Hua关于监事b.  董事会风险管理委员会的主要职能如下：•  审查银行的风险管理策略、政策和风险容忍度，并提交董事会b.  The BRMC's main responsibilities are to:and Mr Liu Erh Fei.大华银行中国现有监事两名，现任监事黄祖耀博士及副监事詹道存
教授均由股东委派。监事的委任符合监管要求和《公司章程》的规定。批准；•  确保风险管理体系健康独立，及其建立和运作符合董事会批准的策略和政策；•  在识别、衡量、监督和控制各种风险的过程中，审查和评估银行风险管理架构及实践的充分性和有效性；•  审查管理层关于风险敞口、风险组合结构及其管理和风险监控的定期报告；及•  定期向董事会报告并提示董事会注意负面风险事件或趋势。c.  2020 年，董事会风险管理委员会共召开会议四次。•review and recommend risk management strategies, policies and 
risk tolerance of the Bank for the Board's approval;监事的职权主要包括：••  oversee  the  establishment  and  operation  of  a  robust  and 
independent risk management system that is consistent with the 
strategies and policies approved by the Board;
review and assess the adequacy and effectiveness of the Bank's risk 
management framework and practice for identifying, measuring, 
monitoring and controlling various types of risks;
review regular management reports on risk exposures, risk portfolio 
composition  and  the  management  and  monitoring  of  such 
exposures and portfolio composition; and
report to the Board regularly and highlight any adverse risk event 
or trend for the Board's attention.••c.  The BRMC held four meetings in 2020.•  检查银行财务和财务报表；
•  监督董事、高级管理人员的行为，以确保银行审慎经营，并在必要时对董事、高级管理人员的不当行为予以纠正；•  维护银行、股东及其他利益相关者特别是存款人的合法权益；及
•  法律、法规及银行章程规定的应由监事行使的其他职权和股东授予其行使的其他职权。2020 年，监事严格按照《中华人民共和国公司法》和《公司章程》
等规定，积极履行对董事会和高级管理层实施监督的职责。在履行
职责的过程中，监事接受并审阅有关本行经营及风险管理状况的常
规报告，对我行的经营情况、财务状况、消费者权益保护以及我行
董事和高级管理人员履行职责的合法合规性进行了有效地监督，同
时会见了董事及高级管理人员，并列席董事会会议。SupervisorsThe Bank has two Supervisors who were nominated by the shareholder 
and appointed in accordance with regulatory requirements and the Bank's 
Articles of Association. They are Dr Wee Cho Yaw (Supervisor) and Prof 
Cham Tao Soon (Deputy Supervisor).The main responsibilities of the Supervisors include:• 
••inspecting the accounts and ﬁnancial statements of the Bank;
supervising the Board and Senior Management to ensure that the Bank 
is run in a prudent manner and that the Board and Senior Management 
take corrective actions where necessary;
safeguarding  the  lawful  rights  and  interests  of  the  Bank,  the 
shareholder and other stakeholders, particularly the depositors; and•  exercising such other power and authority pursuant to the laws, 
regulations and the Bank's Articles of Association, and as may be 
authorised by the shareholder.In 2020, the Supervisors duly discharged their responsibility of supervising 
the Board and Senior Management strictly, in accordance with relevant 
requirements, including the provisions under the PRC Company Law and 
in the Bank's Articles of Association. In discharging their responsibility, the 
Supervisors received and reviewed regular reports on the Bank's operations 
and risk management, and conducted supervision of the operations and 
ﬁnancial position, and protection of consumer rights of the Bank and the 
performance of the Directors and Senior Management. The Supervisors 
also met with Directors and Senior Management, and attended Board 
meetings.5051公司治理
Corporate Governance独立董事履行职责情况Performance of Independent Directors2020 年度，我行设两名独立董事，分别为刘二飞先生及吴玉华先生。
其中，刘二飞先生担任董事会下设的提名及薪酬委员会和审计委员
会主席，以及关联交易控制委员会和董事会风险管理委员会成员。
吴玉华先生担任董事会下设的关联交易控制委员会主席，以及提名
及薪酬委员会、审计委员会和董事会风险管理委员会成员。报告期内，两位独立董事均勤勉尽责地履行了董事义务，认真审议
了各项议案。两位独立董事为董事会、董事会下设专业委员会切实
履行决策和监督职能发挥了积极作用，维护了我行的整体利益以及
股东的合法权益。There were two independent directors on the Board in 2020, namely Mr 
Liu Erh Fei and Mr Wu Yu Hua. Mr Liu Erh Fei is the Chairman of the NRC 
and AC, as well as a member of the CTCC and BRMC. Mr Wu Yu Hua is the 
Chairman of the CTCC, as well as a member of the NRC, AC and BRMC.For the year under review, both independent directors discharged their 
duties diligently and responsibly. They contributed to the decision-making 
and oversight by the Board and Board Committees and safeguarded the 
rights and overall interests of the Bank and the shareholder.(1) 2020 年独立董事出席董事会会议的情况(1) Attendance of Independent Directors' at Board Meetings in 2020独立董事姓名
Name of Independent 
Director应参加
（次）
No. of Board Meetings 
Held出席
（次）
No. of Board Meetings 
Attended缺席
（次）
Absent with Apologies备注
Remarks刘二飞
Liu Erh Fei吴玉华
Wu Yu Hua444400//(2) 独立董事对我行有关事项提出异议的情况(2) Dissent of Independent Directors2020 年，独立董事均未对我行本年度的议案事项提出异议。In 2020, Management did not give cause for the independent directors to 
record their dissent on any matter.监事及董事知情权银行监事及董事能自由与管理层进行沟通并获取银行信息。银行就
财务信息、风险管理、运营管理等事项向监事及董事提供全面及时
的报告以便其做出进一步的会议讨论。银行监事及董事有权与公司
秘书进行沟通，从而了解最新的法规变化及公司治理方面的实施情
况。监事及董事在履行其职责时可以根据需要独立寻求专业意见，
由此产生的费用，将由银行承担。Supervisors' and Directors' Access to InformationThe Supervisors and Directors have unfettered access to information 
and Management, and are provided with timely and comprehensive 
ﬁnancial, risk management and operational reports to facilitate informed 
discussions during meetings. They also have access to the Company 
Secretary  whose  responsibilities  include  advising  the  Supervisors 
and Directors on regulatory changes and best practices in corporate 
governance.  The  Supervisors  and  Directors  may  seek  independent 
professional advice in the course of discharging their duties at the Bank's 
expense.高级管理层成员构成姓名Name职务PositionSenior Management Structure性别Gender出生 
年份 
Year of 
Birth任期
起始 
Assignment 
Commencement最高学历
 
Highest Academic Degree相关经验
年限
Relevant 
Years of 
Experience符懋赞
FOO Moo Tan
Peter行长兼首席执行官
President and Chief 
Executive Ofﬁcer
(CEO)1962男
Male2016 年 12 月
Dec 2016新加坡国立大学房地产管理学士荣誉学位
Bachelor of Science, Estate Management, Honours
National University of Singapore
特许金融分析师 
Chartered Financial Analyst杨瑞琪
YANG Rui Qi
Mark副行长
Alternate Country CEO
兼任环球金融部主管
Head, Global Markets1973男
Male2020 年 10 月
Oct 2020
2016 年 10 月
Oct 2016澳大利亚墨尔本大学应用金融硕士
Master of Applied Finance 
The University of Melbourne, Australia刘可
LIU Ke
Jenny首席风险控制官
Chief Risk Ofﬁcer1970女
Female2016 年 1 月
Jan 2016新加坡南洋理工大学工商管理硕士
Master of Business Administration
Nanyang Technological University, Singapore卢绍康
LO Siu-Hong
Rodney渠道及数字化部主管
Head, Channels and 
Digitalisation男
Male19672014 年 6 月
Jun 2014乔治华盛顿大学
项目领导、管理及沟通 ；项目经理的
合同管理课程
Project Leadership, Management and Communications 
Contracting for Project Managers
The George Washington University, USA陈垙荣
TAN Kong Weng
Steven首席技术官
Chief Information 
Ofﬁcer1976男
Male2016 年 6 月
Jun 2016新加坡国立大学工商管理学士荣誉学位
Bachelor of Business Administration, Honours
National University of Singapore朱轩
ZHU Xuan
Brian郑濬
ZHENG Jun
Adaline辛韬
XIN Tao
Cynthia黄莹
HUANG Ying
Christina首席财务官
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer男
Male19802018 年 7 月
Jul 20181980女
Female2018 年 2 月
Feb 20181981女
Female2020 年 1 月
Jan 20201972女
Female2018 年 4 月
Apr 2018批发银行部主管
Head, Wholesales 
Banking企业银行部主管
Head, Corporate 
Banking商业银行部
非南区主管
Head, Commercial 
Banking - Non-South 
China复旦大学会计硕士
Master of Professional Accounting
Fudan University上海交通大学国际金融学士
Bachelor of International Finance
Shanghai Jiao Tong University英国诺丁汉大学经济学硕士
Master of Science in Economics
University of Nottingham, UK英国加的夫大学商学院国际经济、金融与银行学硕士
Master of Science in International
Economics Banking and Finance
Cardiff University, UK袁泉
YUAN Quan
Albert交易银行业务部主管
Head, Transaction 
Banking1976男
Male2018 年 5 月
May 2018日本立教大学经济学硕士
Master of Economics
Rikkyo University, Japan331925271918181426175253公司治理
Corporate Governance姓名Name职务Position性别Gender出生 
年份 
Year of 
Birth任期
起始 
Assignment 
Commencement最高学历
 
Highest Academic Degree相关经验
年限
Relevant 
Years of 
Experience姓名Name职务Position性别Gender出生 
年份 
Year of 
Birth任期
起始 
Assignment 
Commencement最高学历
 
Highest Academic Degree相关经验
年限
Relevant 
Years of 
Experience张晓
ZHANG Xiao
Andy跨国企业银行部主管
Head, Multinational 
Corporate
兼任上海分行行长
General Manager of 
Shanghai Branch1971男
Male2014 年 9 月
Sep 20142018 年 12 月
Dec 2018上海财经大学 - 美国韦伯斯特大学工商管理硕士
Master of Business Administration
Shanghai University of Finance and Economics and Webster 
University27林培丰
LIM Pei Hong
Winston个人金融服务部主管
Head, Personal 
Financial Services1975男
Male2015 年 10 月
Oct 2015新加坡南洋理工大学会计学士荣誉学位
Bachelor of Accountancy, Honours
Nanyang Technological University, Singapore郑伟仁
TEH Wee Jin企业银行信贷部主管
Head, Corporate Credit男
Male19582008 年 9 月
Sep 2008新西兰大学商学士
Bachelor of Commerce
University of Otago, New Zealand杨健顺
YEOH Kian Soon 
Benedict商业银行信贷部主管
Head, Commercial 
Credit男
Male19702014 年 7 月
Jul 2014美国卡耐基梅隆大学理学学士
Bachelor of Science
Carnegie Mellon University, USA洪晓燕
HONG Xiao Yan
Amy人力资源部主管
Head, Human 
Resources1977女
Female2007 年 12 月
Dec 2007复旦大学工商管理硕士
Master of Business Administration
Fudan University张飒
ZHANG Sa
Sarah内部审计部主管
Head, Internal Audit1972女
Female2016 年 1 月
Jan 2016美国纽约州立水牛城大学工商管理硕士
Master of Corporate Finance and Accounting
State University of New York at Buffalo, USA王媛
WANG Yuan
Eliza法律与秘书部主管
Head, Legal and 
Secretariat1974女
Female2007 年 12 月
Dec 2007复旦大学工商管理硕士
Master of Business Administration
Fudan University熊大永
XIONG Da Yong合规部主管
Head, Compliance1970男
Male2017 年 8 月
Aug 2017复旦大学金融学博士
Doctor of Finance
Fudan University1977女
Female2011 年 5 月
May 2011英国利兹大学国际市场管理学硕士
Master of Science in International Marketing Management
University of Leeds, UK男
Male男
Male19732018 年 7 月
Jul 2018美国南阿拉巴马州大学理学士
Bachelor of Science
University of South Alabama, USA19702019 年 8 月
Aug 20192019 年 3 月
Mar 2019香港理工大学中国商贸管理理学硕士
Master of Science in China Business Studies
Hong Kong Polytechnic University策略通讯与品牌部
Head,  Strategic 
Communications and 
Brand北京分行行长
General Manager of 
Beijing Branch深圳分行行长
General Manager of 
Shenzhen Branch
兼任商业银行部
南区主管
Head, Commercial 
Banking - South China付玥
FU Yue
Sabrina林联坚
LIM Lian Kian盛天有
SHING Tin Yau
Gordon5419392523272417202426范南鸿
FAN Nan Hong
Frank广州分行行长
General Manager of 
Guangzhou Branch陈亦昕
CHEN Yi-Hsi
Lisa苏州分行行长
General Manager of 
Suzhou Branch缑微
GOU Wei
Helen胡维
HU Wei
Tony沈阳分行行长
General Manager of 
Shenyang Branch成都分行行长
General Manager of 
Chengdu Branch周晓舟
ZHOU Xiao Zhou
Alan天津分行行长
General Manager of 
Tianjin Branch叶艳
YE Yan
Beicy杭州分行行长
General Manager of 
Hangzhou Branch蔡福耀
CHUA Hock Yew
Alexander重庆分行行长
General Manager of 
Chongqing Branch蔡炜玲
CAI Wei Ling
Cissy厦门分行行长
General Manager of 
Xiamen Branch邵一宁
SHAO Yi Ning昆明分行行长
General Manager of 
Kunming Branch苏润馨
SOO June Hsing
June中山分行行长
General Manager of 
Zhongshan Branch谢颖
XIE Ying
Grace上海自贸试验区支行
行长 
Branch Manager of 
Shanghai Pilot Free 
Trade Zone Sub-Branch1976男
Male2018 年 4 月
Apr 2018香港浸会大学工商管理硕士
Master of Business Administration
Hong Kong Baptist University1963女
Female2020 年 5 月
May 2020美国南伊利诺伊大学卡本代尔分校工商管理硕士
Master of Business Administration
South Illinois University, Carbondale, USA1977女
Female2020 年 8 月
Aug 2020辽宁大学经济学学士及法学学士
Bachelor of Economics and Laws
Liaoning University男
Male男
Male19782018 年 12 月
Dec 2018法国国立科学技术与管理学院工商管理硕士
Master of Business Administration
Conservatoire National des Arts et Métiers, France19822020 年 4 月
Apr 2020英国赫特福德大学会计金融学士
Bachelor of Accounting and Finance
University of Hertfordshire, UK1971女
Female2018 年 12 月
Dec 2018哈尔滨工程大学电子工程学士
Bachelor of Electrical Engineer
Harbin Engineering University1972男
Male2018 年 1 月
Jan 2018加拿大多伦多大学经济学学士荣誉学位
Bachelor of Commerce, Honours
University of Toronto, Canada1981女
Female2020 年 7 月
Jul 2020英国中兰开夏大学商务金融和国际商务硕士
Master of Business Finance and International Business
University of Central Lancashire, UK1983女
Female2020 年 6 月
Jun 2020云南财经大学市场学学士
Bachelor of Marketing
Yunnan University of Finance and Economics1975女
Female2019 年 8 月
Aug 20191983女
Female2020 年 8 月
Aug 2020国立台湾大学财务金融硕士
Master of Business Administration
National Taiwan University上海交通大学应用语言学硕士
Master of Applied Linguistics
Shanghai Jiao Tong University陈晓苓
CHEN Xiao Ling上海徐家汇支行行长
Branch Manager of 
Xujiahui Sub-Branch1984女
Female2018 年 6 月
Jun 2018上海理工大学计算机科学与技术学士
Bachelor of Engineering (Science and Technology)
The University of Shanghai for Science and Technology杜艳
DU Yan
Cherry上海静安支行行长
Branch Manager of 
Jing'An Sub-Branch1975女
Female2016 年 5 月
May 2016比利时联合商学院高级工商管理硕士
Master of Business Administration
United Business Institutes, Belgium2434192013262314142012121855公司治理
Corporate Governance
大华银行中国薪酬管理
Remuneration薪酬政策与管理大华银行中国薪酬政策的目标是提供具有市场竞争力的薪酬水平使
得银行能够合理并较为恰当地吸引、保留和激励与本行组织文化、
价值观相契合，与岗位胜任力相匹配的高素质人才。同时，该薪酬
政策体现了本行将薪酬支付与银行的业绩、长期利益以及风险管控
有效的结合。该薪酬政策适用于本行全体正式员工。根据本行薪酬政策的规定，员工的薪酬水平主要与集团、员工所在
的部门及个人的绩效考核结果相挂钩。绩效考核的目标设置则体现
了本行对该部门及员工个人对于风险管控及长中短期绩效的要求和
期望。此外，本行从事合规和风险管理部门员工的薪酬水平与其所
监督的业务条线的绩效水平相独立。本行可变薪酬包括绩效奖金以及限制型股票，该支付方式可以合理
地将薪酬与本行的绩效以及与当前和未来的风险挂钩。根据中国银
行保险监督管理委员会颁布的《商业银行稳健薪酬监管指引》，本
行的高级管理人员以及对风险有重要影响岗位上的员工有部分可变
薪酬将被递延支付。根据本行最新的薪酬递延框架，主要高级管理
人员可变薪酬的递延比例为 50%，其他高级管理人员以及对风险有
重要影响岗位上的员工可变薪酬的递延比例为 40%，该递延支付工
具以限制型股票或递延奖金（如适用）的方式进行操作。为了更好地发挥薪酬在银行治理中的积极作用，大华银行中国已成
立了提名及薪酬委员会（以下简称“委员会”），该委员会由四名董
事组成，其中委员会主席由独立董事担任。报告期内，委员会共召
开会议 1 次。Compensation for Board Directors, Supervisors and Senior 
ManagementIn 2020, the Bank paid a total of RMB693,000 directors' fees to the 
members of NRC, and paid a total of RMB400,000 supervisors' fees to the 
supervisors.As  of  31  December  2020,  there  are  total  35  senior  executives  and 
material risk takers whose roles have material impacts on the Bank's risk 
exposure. The total compensation for these executives and material risk 
takers in 2020 was RMB93,751,552, including RMB53,251,054 ﬁxed pay and 
RMB40,500,498 variable pay.The Bank currently has no explicit and/or implicit adjustments to the 
deferred pay and/or remained pay.Remuneration Policy and Management董事、监事和高级管理人员薪酬2020 年本行向提名及薪酬委员会成员支付的董事费总计为人民币
693,000 元，向监事支付的监事费总计为人民币 400,000 元。截至 2020 年 12 月 31 日，本行共 35 名高级管理人员及对风险有重要
影响岗位上的员工，在 2020 年我行对其支付的薪酬总额为人民币
93,751,552 元，其中固定薪酬总额为人民币 53,251,054 元，可变薪酬总
额为人民币 40,500,498 元。本行目前无递延薪酬、留存薪酬的显性调整和隐性调整。The remuneration policy of UOB China aims to provide competitive 
remuneration  package  and  ensure  the  bank  is  able  to  appropriately 
attract, retain and motivate high quality talents who not only fit the 
Bank's culture and share the same values but also meet the competencies 
the positions require. Meanwhile, the remuneration policy outlines how 
our remuneration entitlement links to the Bank's performance, long-term 
beneﬁts and risk management. This remuneration policy applies to all of 
the full-time employees with the Bank.According to the Bank's remuneration policy, the employee's salary is 
mainly linked to the individual performance, the Group's and function's 
performance.  The  performance  target  setting  clearly  shows  the 
requirements and expectations of the Bank for risk management and long-
term and short-term performance of the function and the individual. 
In addition, the compensation review of the employees who are taking 
compliance  and  risk  management's  roles  is  independent  with  the 
performance of the business lines they supervise.The  Bank's  variable  pay  includes  performance  bonus  and  restricted 
shares, which links the staff variable pay to the Bank's performance and 
current and future risks. In line with the Supervisory Guidelines on Sound 
Compensation in Commercial Banks issued by China Banking and Insurance 
Regulatory Commission, senior management and employees whose roles 
have material impacts on the Bank's risk exposure would have a portion of 
their variable pay deferred. Under the Bank's latest deferral framework, the 
50 per cent deferral rate will be applied to the variable pay for key senior 
managements whereas for other senior managements and employees 
whose roles have material impacts on the Bank's risk exposure, the 40 per 
cent deferral rate will be applied to the variable pay. This deferral will be 
in the form of deferred shares or deferred cash (where applicable).To maintain sound corporate governance practices and an effective 
remuneration management, UOB China has established a Nominating and 
Remuneration Committee (NRC), which consists of four Board Directors. 
The chairman of NRC is an independent director. During the reporting 
period, the committee held one meeting in total.5657公司治理
Corporate Governance
内部控制和内部审计情况
Internal Control and Internal Audit内部控制大华银行中国依据中国的政策法规和监管要求并结合大华银行集团
的具体实践，逐步建立、完善适应银行业务发展的内部控制体系和
制度，并确保其始终具备前瞻性和可实践性。我行董事会通过定期召开会议及相关内部委员会讨论，审阅各项风
险管理和分析报告、经营情况与预算执行情况报告和内部审计报告。
同时，结合同业经验交流等多种形式，全面评估银行内部控制体系。我行现行的内部控制体系和制度在改善内部控制环境方面体现了较
好的完整性、合理性和有效性，包括但不限于增强风险识别、监测
和评估能力、提高风险控制措施、完善信息交流与反馈机制、强化
监督评价与纠正机制。该内控体系和制度能够对国家法律法规和银
行规章制度的贯彻执行提供合理保证。Internal Control内部审计Internal AuditUOB China has a well-established internal control system that adheres 
strictly to local regulators' requirements and the Group's policies and 
guidelines. This provides a robust framework and systems that enable 
the Bank to set strategic and practical objectives to support its business 
development.The Board assesses the Bank's internal control framework and systems 
through the review of risk management reports and analysis, operational 
and budget reports, internal audit reports tabled at regular meetings, 
discussions at various internal committees and from the exchange of 
insights with industry peers.The integrity and effectiveness of the Bank's internal control system 
is  a  result  of  the  continuous  improvement  on  the  internal  control 
environment,  including,  but  not  limited  to,  strengthening  risk 
identification/assessment, monitoring processes and risk mitigation 
techniques; and constantly reviewing communication/feedback as well 
as evaluation/correction mechanisms. The internal control framework 
and systems are able to provide a reasonable level of assurance on the 
implementation of legal statutes and regulations.我行设立了独立的审计监督机构——内部审计部。在职能层面，内
部审计部直接向董事会下设的审计委员会和大华银行集团审计部报
告工作；在行政层面，内部审计部向我行行长兼首席执行官汇报工作。Internal Audit is an independent function that reports functionally to the 
Audit Committee (AC) and Group Audit, while administratively reports to 
the President and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer (CEO) of UOB China.内部审计部的主要职责为通过提供独立及客观的内部审计服务和其
他增值服务，协助董事会和管理层履行其法律和管理职责，旨在促
进我行运营活动中内部控制和风险管理的合理性和有效性。内部审
计部依据其系统的、严格的方法论，评估我行内部财务控制、运营
和合规控制的充分性和有效性，同时改善我行风险管理、控制与治
理流程的有效性，从而帮助我行实现其经营和管理目标。在集团审
计部引领下，2020 年内部审计部持续利用更多的技术工具，如数据
分析、自动化等提高审计效率和效果，积极与业务和支持部门合作
增进对业务产品和流程的理解，争取更好为银行的转型和业务流程
的完善提供意见和建议。内部审计部遵照中国银行保险监督管理委员会颁布的《关于金融机
构内部审计的监管要求》，以及国际内部审计师协会制定的《准则
与指引》履行职责。每年度，内部审计部依据“风险导向”的审计方
法制定审计计划和审计频率，并根据对被审计对象的固有风险、内
控有效性的评估结果、管理层关注和监管热点确定审计项目的优先
次序以及审计范围 , 审计内容覆盖总行和分支机构的业务发展和运营
情况以及信息系统基础架构和应用程序的建设及运用情况等。该审
计计划每年经过审计委员会审批后执行。内部审计部根据经审计委员会批准的内部审计计划开展审计，同时
按照监管部门、大华银行中国行长兼首席执行官、高级管理层或审
计委员会的要求开展专项审计或检查，向相关管理层、行长兼首席
执行官、审计委员会和董事会 ( 如适用 ) 汇报最终审计结果，并对重
大审计发现提请关注。此外，内部审计部负责监督管理层针对内部
审计、外部审计以及监管机构所提出的任何需整改事项所采取的后
续行动的实施情况，对整改结果予以独立评价 , 并按季度向审计委员
会和监管部门上报跟踪结果。The primary role of Internal Audit is to assist the Board and management 
to  discharge  their  legal  and  executive  obligations  by  providing 
independent, objective assurance and value-added services to improve 
the Bank's operations. It helps the Bank to accomplish its objectives by 
having a systematic and disciplined approach to provide an independent 
assessment of the adequacy and effectiveness of the Bank's internal 
ﬁnancial controls, operational and compliance controls, and to improve 
the effectiveness of risk management, control and governance processes. 
During 2020, as led by Group Audit, Internal Audit continuously leveraged 
more technology tools, e.g. Data Analytics, Automation, for improved 
effectiveness and efﬁciency in audit execution, proactively collaborated 
with business and support functions for deepened understanding of 
business products and processes, so as to better assist in the Bank's 
transformation and business process enhancement.Internal Audit performs its function according to the Internal Audit 
Guidelines for Financial Institutions as governed by the China Banking 
and Insurance Regulatory Commission and Standards for the Professional 
Practice of Internal Auditing set by the Institute of Internal Auditors. 
Internal Audit adopts a risk-based prioritisation approach to develop 
its strategic audit plan to determine audit frequency. This approach 
also adopts a comprehensive assessment of inherent risks, controls, 
management concerns and regulatory hotspots. The audit scope covers 
all businesses, operations as well as the infrastructure and applications 
of systems across UOB China's headquarters and branches. The strategic 
audit plan is annually reviewed and approved by the AC prior to its 
implementation.Internal Audit conducts audits in accordance with the internal audit plan 
approved by the AC, and carries out investigations or reviews that may 
be ad hoc requested by the regulator, the CEO, senior management or 
the AC. All internal audit reports are provided to relevant management, 
the CEO, the AC and the Board (where required) with significant issues 
highlighted. Internal Audit is responsible for closely monitoring and 
assessing the follow-up actions taken by the management on the issues 
raised by Internal Audit, external audit and regulators, with reporting to 
the AC and the regulator on quarterly basis.5859风险管理
Risk Management风险管理是业务战略中不可或缺的构成要素。我行的风险管理方法
着重于确保连续的财务稳健性和对我行股东权益和相关方利益的保
护，同时在快速变化的环境中敏捷地把握创造价值的商机。我们致
力于保持高标准的公司治理、健全的风险管理原则和业务实践，以
实现可持续的长期增长。我们不断努力实现最佳风险管理实践，以
支持我们战略目标的实现。2020 管理重点2020 年我们继续致力于推广和建设理想的风险文化，将行为风险管
理纳入我们的风险文化框架，并在全行范围内通过自上而下地层层
强调和传达，加强了风险文化的沟通。为了评估各项风险文化举措
的成效，我们开发了风险文化仪表盘并定期将监测结果上报董事会
和高级管理层，并且在全行各部门开展了风险文化自我评估，和榜
样学习、案例研讨等风险文化宣导。我行积极推进基准利率转换的进程，通过各特别工作小组协作以及
业务部门主导端到端实施工作：我行继续主动监测相关风险敞口、
联络受影响的客户、重新审阅现有的合同、在和客户签订的新合同
中增加后备条款和公平交易条款、优化银行的系统和流程，以及评
估对账务、估值、税务和风险管理的影响。同时我们持续关注最新
的进展情况以确保在对客户和银行都公平的情况下完成基准利率转
换工作。保持健全的风险文化强健的风险文化对银行业务的长期可持续发展至关重要。具体而言，
风险文化是指与风险意识、风险承担和风险管理相关的准则、态度
和行为，以及影响风险决策的控制措施。大华银行风险文化深深植
根于我行的价值观。强健的风险文化确保我们的决策和行动是在深
思熟虑之后做出的，一言一行都以客户为中心，并且确保我们不仅
着眼于眼前的短期收益。大华银行的风险文化理念在大华银行为客户和利益相关方创造长期价值的过程中，风险管理
不可或缺。我们的风险文化基于以下四项原则：健全的风险治理，
确保风控有法可依；平衡的风控原则，确保业务稳中求进；明确的
职责分工，确保各方各司其责；有效的激励机制，确保管控始终如一。
每一项原则都是基于大华银行特有的价值观。通过在整个业务分支
中贯彻统一的风险文化，我们坚守对金融安全和稳定的承诺；坚持
为客户呈现公平结果和恰如其分的支持；坚持可持续和审慎的经营
方式；在诚信、商业道德和自律的基础上取得业绩成果。60Managing risk is an integral part of our business strategy. Our risk management 
approach focuses on ensuring continued ﬁnancial soundness and safeguarding 
the interests of our stakeholders, while remaining nimble to seize value-
creating business opportunities in a fast changing environment. We are 
committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance, sound risk 
management principles and business practices to achieve sustainable long-
term growth. We continuously strive towards best risk management practices 
to support our strategic objectives.2020 HIGHLIGHTSIn 2020 we continued our efforts to foster a robust risk culture within 
UOB. We incorporated conduct risk management into our risk culture 
framework and stepped up risk culture communication efforts bank-wide, 
with an emphasis on the Tone from the Top and Tone from Above. To 
gauge the results of the various risk culture initiatives, we implemented a 
risk culture dashboard to provide regular updates to the Board and senior 
management, and kicked off a self-assessment exercise for business and 
support units.Intensify  our  Inter-Bank  Offered  Rate  (IBOR)  transition  efforts  with 
taskforces overseeing various aspects of the transition and business units 
leading end-to-end coordination. We continued to actively monitor our 
exposure, reached out to affected clients, reviewed existing contracts, 
incorporated fallback language and fair dealing notices into new contracts, 
enhanced  our  systems  and  processes  and  assessed  implications  to 
accounting, valuation, tax and risk management. We are keeping up with 
the latest developments to ensure a fair transition for both customers and 
the bank.MAINTAINING A SOUND RISK CULTUREA strong risk culture is vital to the long-term sustainability of the Bank's 
business franchise. Speciﬁcally, risk culture refers to the norms, attitudes 
and behaviours related to risk awareness, risk-taking and risk management, 
and controls that shape decisions on risks. At UOB, our risk culture is 
based on our values. A strong risk culture ensures that our decisions and 
actions are considered and focused on our stakeholders, and that we are 
not side-tracked by perceived short-term gains.UOB's Risk Culture StatementManaging risk is integral to how UOB creates long-term value for our 
customers and stakeholders. Our risk culture is built on four principles: 
enforcing robust risk governance; balancing growth with stability; ensuring 
accountability for all our risk-based decisions and actions; and encouraging 
awareness, engagement and consistent behaviour in every employee. Each of 
these principles is based on UOB's distinctive set of values that guides every 
action we take. In entrenching our risk culture further across our franchise, we 
uphold our commitment to ﬁnancial safety and soundness; fair outcomes and 
appropriate support for our customers; sustainable and prudent approach to 
business and performance based on integrity, ethics and discipline.Safeguarding our reputation in creating long-term value for our stakeholders保障银行声誉，创造长期价值风险文化影响
Our Risk CultureImpact金融安全和稳健Financial safety
and soundness公平结果和适当支持Fair outcomes for all
appropriate supportstakeholders and可持续和审慎的经营方式Sustainable and prudentapproach to business经营中保持健全的风险文化Maintaining a sound risk culture across our franchise风险文化原则
Our Risk CulturePrinciples风险文化要素
Our Risk CultureComponents健全的风险治理，
确保风控有法可依GOVERNANCE
Enforce robustgovernance of risk平衡的风控原则，
确保业务稳中求进BALANCEBalance growth with
stability in taking risk明确的职责分工，
确保各方各司其责ACCOUNTABILITYEnsure accountabilityfor risk·全面风险管理框架、
  政策和流程 
·明确的风险偏好 
·未雨绸缪的监督机制
·独立的监控职能·Comprehensive risk  
 
  management framework, 
  policies and processes
·Well-defined risk appetite
·Pre-emptive supervision
·Independent controlfunctions·公开沟通与协作
·定期审查风险并
  持续改进·Open communication and 
  collaboration
·Regular risk reviews and  
  continual improvements·根据三道防线，设置明确的职责分工和上报流程·风险收益平衡的薪酬激励机制·已确立的后果管理
·个人责任
·Clear ownership andescalation through the Three 
Lines Model·Balanced risk-rewardremuneration·Established consequences
·Individual’s accountability以诚信、道德和纪律为本的业绩表现Performance based on
integrity, ethics anddiscipline有效的激励机制，
确保管控始终如一CONSISTENCYEncourage consistent
risk-focused behaviour·上级表率
·领导监督和责任
·明确表述原则和预期结果
·经常定期进行分享 
·持续培训·Tone from above
·Leadership oversight andresponsibility·Clear articulation ofprinciples and desired 
outcomes·Frequent and regular sharing 
·Ongoing trainingDemonstrating our unique set of values through consistent behaviour行为一致，展示我们特有的价值观价值观Our Values诚信Honourable进取Enterprising齐心
United担当Committed我们的风险管理策略旨在融入我们的风险文化，以促进持续有效的
风险发现，并有效地预留足够的资本以应对业务活动和外部因素引
致的风险，并且高效地使用资本以控制风险。高级管理委员会在经
董事会及其委员会批准的范围内管理风险。 我们制定了由政策、方
法、工具和流程组成的管理框架，帮助我们识别、计量、监控和管
理银行面临的重大风险。这使我们能够集中精力于银行业的基本理
念，并为所有利益相关方创造长期价值。Our risk management strategy is targeted at embedding our risk culture so 
as to facilitate ongoing effective risk discovery and to set aside adequate 
capital efﬁciently to cater for the risks arising from our business activities and 
external factors, and to use capital efﬁciently to address these risks. Risks are 
managed within levels established by the senior management committees 
and approved by the Board and its committees. We have put in place a set 
of frameworks, policies, methodologies, tools and processes that will help us 
to identify, to measure, to monitor and to manage material risks faced by the 
Bank. These enables us to focus our efforts on the fundamentals of banking 
and to create long-term value for all our stakeholders.61风险管理
Risk Management风险治理RISK GOVERNANCE风险治理结构
Risk Governance Structure· 审计委员会
  Audit  Committee我行的风险治理框架、政策和偏好为银行风险管理活动提供了总体
原则和指引。它们有助于资本管理、战略规划和预算编制以及绩效
管理的关键决策，以确保风险这一维度得到适当和充分考虑。风险
报告定期提交给管理层和董事会，以便他们了解银行的风险状况。大华银行中国采纳了巴塞尔框架要求并遵守中国银行及保险业监督
管理委员会 (CBIRC) 对商业银行的资本管理措施。我们继续采用谨慎
和具有前瞻性的方法在不断演化的监管环境中寻求发展，强调在健
全风险管理原则指导下取得可持续业务回报。我行已采用内部资本充足评估程序 (ICAAP)，持续评估支持我们业务
所需的资本金额。 我们定期审阅内部资本充足评估程序，以确保在
考虑所有重大风险的情况下银行保持良好资本规模。我行通过开展
压力测试确定在压力条件下的资本充足率。我行的风险管理责任始于董事会对银行治理结构进行的监督，旨在
确保银行的业务活动：•  以安全有效的方式开展并符合高标准及健全的商业惯例；
•  符合我行整体业务战略和风险偏好；以及
•  受制于充分的风险管理和内部控制。在这方面，执行委员会 (EXCO) 和董事会风险管理委员会 (BRMC) 协
助董事会进行风险监督。董事会也对银行的整体风险偏好和维持的
风险资本水平进行审阅。在充分考虑风险和回报因素的前提下，由行长兼首席执行官（CEO）
建立的各高级管理委员会负责协助进行业务决策。涉及的主要高级
管理委员会包括管理委员会 (MC)，资产负债委员会 (ALCO)，信贷委
员会 (ICCC)，操作风险管理委员会 (ORMC)，消费者权益保护委员会
(CRPC) 和风险与资本委员会 (RCC)。这些委员会还协助董事会就具体
风险领域的管理。高级管理层和高级管理委员会被授权对业务条线和 / 或宽泛的产品
条线授予风险偏好限额。Our  risk  frameworks,  policies  and  appetite  provide  the  overarching 
principles and guidance for the Bank's risk management activities. They 
guide  our  key  decisions  for  capital  management,  strategic  planning 
and budgeting, and performance management to ensure that the risk 
dimension is appropriately and sufficiently considered. Risk reports are 
regularly submitted to management and the Board to keep them apprised 
of the Bank's risk proﬁle.UOB  China  has  adopted  the  Basel  Framework  and  observes  capital 
management  measures  on  commercial  banks  by  China  Banking  and 
Insurance  Regulatory  Commission  (CBIRC).  We  continue  to  adopt  a 
prudent and proactive approach in navigating the evolving regulatory 
landscape,  with  emphasis  on  sound  risk  management  principles  in 
delivering sustainable returns.We have adopted Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) 
to assess on an ongoing basis the amount of capital necessary to support 
our activities. We review the ICAAP periodically to ensure that the Bank 
remains well-capitalised after considering all material risks. Stress testing 
is conducted to determine capital adequacy under stressed conditions.UOB China's responsibility for risk management starts at the top with our 
Board overseeing a governance structure that is designed to ensure that 
the Bank's business activities are:
•  conducted in a safe and sound manner and in line with the higheststandards of professionalism;•  consistent with the Bank's overall business strategy and risk appetite;and•  subjected to adequate risk management and internal controls.In this regard, the Board is assisted by the Executive Committee (EXCO) 
and Board Risk Management Committee (BRMC) in the oversight of risks. 
The Board also reviews the overall risk appetite and level of risk capital to 
maintain for the Bank.The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) has established senior management 
committees to assist in making business decisions with due consideration 
to risks and returns. The main senior management committees involved 
in  this  are  the  Management  Committee  (MC),  Asset  and  Liability 
Committee (ALCO), In-Country Credit Committee (ICCC), Operational Risk 
Management Committee (ORMC), Consumer Rights Protection Committee 
(CRPC) and the Risk and Capital Committee (RCC). These committees also 
assist the Board committees in speciﬁc risk areas.Senior  management  and  the  senior  management  committees  are 
authorised to delegate risk appetite limits by business lines and/or broad 
product lines.62董事会Board of Directors首席执行官CEO员
委
属
下
会
事
董s
e
e
t
t
im
m
o
C
d
r
a
o
B会
员
委
理
管
级
高s
e
e
t
t
im
m
o
C
 
t
n
e
m
e
g
a
n
a
Mir
o
n
e
S· 董事会风险管理委员会Board Risk Management Committee· 提名及薪酬委员会
  Nominating and Remuneration Committee
· 执行委员会
Executive Committee
 
· 关联交易控制委员会Connected Transactions Control CommitteeIn-Country Credit CommitteeAsset & Liability CommitteeRisk & Capital Committee· 风险与资本委员会
 
· 信贷委员会
 
· 资产负债委员会
 
· 管理委员会
  Management Committee
· 消费者权益保护委员会
 
· 操作风险管理委员会
  Operational Risk Management CommitteeConsumer Rights Protection Committee业务部门Business Functions支持部门Support Functions风险控制部门Risk Control Functions首席风险官Chief Risk Officer内部
审计Internal 
Audit外部
审计External 
Audit第一道防线  First line of defence第二道防线 Second line of defence第三道防线 Third line of defence风险管理也是银行内每个员工的责任。风险意识和职责通过一个既
定的框架嵌入到我们的企业文化中，确保对整个银行和各种类型的
风险得到有效管理。这是通过如下所示的“三道防线”组织控制结构
实现的：第一道防线 -  风险所有者。各业务及业务支持部门应对由于自身业
务活动产生的风险承担首要责任，实施并执行有效的风险管理控制
措施。这包括充分的管理及监督控制以确保合规，同时对控制失效、
流程缺陷及非预期的突发事件引起关注并作相应的报告。Risk management is the responsibility of every employee within the Bank. 
We strive to instill awareness in our employees of the risks created by 
our actions and be accountable for the consequences of those actions.  
We have an established framework to ensure appropriate oversight, 
accountability and management of all risk types encountered in the 
course of our business. Our organisational control structure provides the 
Three Lines model as follows:First line – The Risk Owner: The business and business support functions 
have primary responsibility for implementing and executing effective 
controls for the management of risks arising from their business activities. 
This includes establishing adequate managerial and supervisory controls 
to ensure compliance with approved risk policies, appetite, limits and 
controls and to highlight control breakdowns, inadequacy of processes 
and unexpected risk events.63风险管理
Risk Management第二道防线 - 风险监督：风险控制监督部门（风险管理部及合规部）
和首席风险官为第二道防线，协助银行实现平衡增长和稳定的发展
策略，制定风险政策、框架、风险偏好和限额，而业务部门在此范
围内进行业务操作。风险控制监督部门也负责对银行整体风险概况
进行独立的评审及监控，并向相关的高级管理委员会报告显著薄弱
环节及风险问题。风险控制监督部门具有的独立性保证了必要的查核和平衡。第三道防线 -  独立审计：我行的内部审计对第一道防线和第二道防
线在内的所有方面执行风险导向型审计，向行长兼首席执行官、审
计委员会（AC）及董事会独立提供对风险管理及控制结构、政策、
框架、系统和流程的充分性和有效性的保障。风险偏好大华银行中国已经建立了风险偏好框架，确定银行力求实现业务目
标过程中能够并且愿意承担的风险总量。 建立风险偏好框架的目的
不是为了限制承担风险，而是确保银行的风险状况保持在明确界定
和可容忍的范围内。 该框架是根据以下主要标准制定的：•  与相应利益相关方的相关性，具有适当的细分级别；
•  实用、一致和易于沟通和实施的指标；
•  与我行业务战略的关键要素保持一致；
•  可分析证明和可衡量的指标。风险偏好定义了关键领域的适当阈值和限额，包括但不限于信贷风
险、国别风险、市场风险、流动性风险、操作风险、信息科技风险
和声誉风险。我们承受风险的方式是聚焦于被充分了解且具有完备
风险管理能力的各项业务。通过这种方法，我们的目标是尽量控制
盈余波动和集中度风险，确保银行良好的信用评级、充足的资本和
稳定的资金来源得到保持。这使我们能够在不断变化的经济条件和
周期中，成为我们客户的坚定的合作伙伴。我行的风险偏好框架和风险偏好每年定期更新并由董事会批准通过。
银行管理层负责定期将风险概况和风险偏好限额的监测情况上报董
事会及董事会风险管理委员会知悉。Second line – Risk Oversight: The risk and control oversight functions 
(Risk Management and Compliance Function), and the Chief Risk Ofﬁcer 
(CRO) provide the Second line, support the Bank's strategy of balancing 
growth  with  stability  by  establishing  risk  policies,  frameworks,  risk 
appetite and limits within which the business functions must operate. 
They are also responsible for the independent review and monitoring of 
the Bank's risk proﬁle and highlight any signiﬁcant vulnerabilities and risk 
issues to the respective management committees.The independence of risk and control oversight functions from business 
functions ensures the necessary checks and balances.Third line – Independent Audit: The Bank's internal auditors conduct 
risk-based audits covering all aspects of the First and Second lines to 
provide independent assurance to the CEO, Audit Committee (AC) and 
the Board, on the adequacy and effectiveness of the risk management and 
control structure, policies, frameworks, systems and processes.RISK APPETITEUOB China has established a risk appetite framework to define the 
amount of risk we are able and willing to take in pursuit of our business 
objectives. It ensures that the Bank's risk profile remains within well-
deﬁned and tolerable boundaries. The framework was formulated based 
on the following key criteria:•  alignment to the Bank's key business strategy; 
•  relevance  to  respective  stakeholders,  with  appropriate  levels  ofgranularity;•  practical, consistent and easy-to-understand metrics for communicationand implementation; and•  analytically-substantiated and measurable metrics.The risk appetite deﬁnes suitable thresholds and limits across key areas 
of credit risk, country risk, market risk, liquidity risk, operational risk, 
technology risk and reputational risk. Our risk-taking approach is focused 
on businesses which we understand and whose risk we are well-equipped 
to manage. This approach helps us to minimise earnings volatility and 
concentration risk, and ensures that our high credit ratings, strong capital 
and stable funding base remain intact. This way, we will remain a steadfast 
partner of our customers through changing economic conditions and 
cycles.UOB China's risk appetite framework and risk appetite are reviewed and 
approved annually by the Board. Management monitors and reports the 
risk proﬁles and compliance with the risk appetite to the Board and BRMC 
on a regular basis.重大风险MATERIAL RISKS大华银行中国的业务战略、产品、客户组合和经营环境使我们面临
金融和非金融风险。识别和监控重大风险是本行风险管理方法的组
成部分。它促使我们能够对整个银行进行适当的评估并积极采取缓
释措施降低这些风险。下表列举了可能影响银行战略目标实现的重
大风险，各重大风险的具体内容请参考后续章节：UOB China's business strategies, products, customer proﬁles and operating 
environment expose us to a number of ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial risks. 
Identifying and monitoring key risks are integral to the Bank's approach to 
risk management. It enables us to make proper assessment and to mitigate 
these risks proactively across the Bank. The table below lists the key risks 
which could impact the achievement of the Bank's strategic objectives. 
Details of these key risks can be found in the following pages.重大风险定义风险管控信贷风险
Credit Risk信贷风险是由于借款人或交易对手无法履行到期的金融或
偿付义务而引致的损失风险。本行制定了信贷风险管理框架、政策、风险模型和风险限
额进行风险管控。The risk of loss arising from any failure by a borrower or 
counterparty to meet its financial obligations when such 
obligations are due.Through the Bank's credit risk management framework, policies, 
probability of default/loss given default/exposure at default/
portfolio models and limits.市场风险
Market Risk市场风险指由于相关资产的市场价格变动（例如利率，汇
率，股票价格，商品价格和信贷息差的变化）给银行造成
损失的风险。也包括银行账户中的利率风险，这是由于利
率环境变化而导致的潜在资本损失或收益减少。本行制定了市场风险管理框架、政策、风险价值模型和风
险限额进行风险管控。制定了资产负债风险管理框架、银
行账户利率风险管理政策和风险限额进行银行账户利率风
险管控。The risk of loss from movements in the market rates or prices 
(such as changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, 
equity prices, commodity prices and credit spreads) of the 
underlying asset. It includes interest rate risk in the banking 
book which is the potential loss of capital or reduction in 
earnings due to changes in interest rates environment.Through  the  Bank's  market  risk  management  framework, 
policies, Value-at-Risk models and limits. Interest risk in the 
banking book is managed through the Bank's balance sheet risk 
management framework and interest rate risk in the banking 
book management policies and limits.流动性风险
Liquidity Risk流动性风险是指银行无法获得充足资金或无法以合理成本
获得充足资金以应对资产增长或到期债务支付的风险。本行制定了资产负债风险管理框架进行风险管控，包含各
项政策和风险限额。The  risk  that  arises  from  the  Bank's  inability  to  meet  its 
obligations or fund increases in assets as they fall due.Through the Bank's balance sheet risk management framework, 
liquidity risk management policies, ratios and limits.操作风险
Operational 
Risk操作风险是指由不完善或有问题的内部程序、员工和信息
科技系统，以及外部事件所造成损失的风险。操作风险涵
盖银行营运风险、欺诈风险、法律风险、监管合规风险、
声誉风险、外包风险与信息科技风险，  但不包括战略风
险和业务风险。本行制定了操作风险管理框架，政策、管理工具进行操作
风险管控，包括风险识别和控制自我评估、关键操作风险
指标、操作风险事件报告、管理风险意识和情景分析。The risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal 
processes,  people  and  systems  or  from  external  events. 
Potential loss may be in the form of financial loss or other 
damage, for example, loss of reputation and public conﬁdence 
that will impact the Bank's creditability and/or ability to 
transact, to maintain liquidity and/or to obtain new business. 
This includes banking operations risk, fraud risk, legal risk, 
outsourcing risk, regulatory compliance risk, reputational risk 
and technology risk but excludes strategic and business risks.Through the respective risk management frameworks, policies, 
and  operational  risk  management  programmes  including 
Key Risk and Control Self-Assessments, Key Operational Risk 
Indicators, Incident Reporting, Management Risk Awareness and 
Scenario Analysis.6465风险管理
Risk Management重大风险定义风险管控行为风险
Conduct Risk行为风险是由于员工行为或行动不当而导致对客户产生不
公平的结果、对市场诚信产生的负面影响以及其他损害集
团声誉的问题。这也包含监督主管未合理管理其员工行为
问题或未及时上报行为失当的失职情况。通过利用操作风险管理、内部欺诈管理、举报、员工纪律、
个人问责、行为守则、薪酬、公平交易和反洗钱方面的框架、
政策和程序多种方法进行管控。The  risk  of  improper  employee  behaviour  or  action  that 
results in unfair stakeholder outcomes, negative impact on 
market integrity and other issues that damage the reputation 
of the Group.Through a multi-faceted approach leveraging on the frameworks, 
policies and procedures in operational risk management, internal 
fraud  management,  whistle-blowing,  employee  discipline, 
individual accountability, code of conduct, remuneration, Fair 
Dealing, and anti-money laundering.根据整体风险治理框架进行策略风险管控，并由高级管理
层委员会负责监督。信贷风险治理和组织信贷风险CREDIT RISK信贷风险是由于借款人或交易对手无法履行到期的金融或偿付义务
而引致的损失风险。信贷风险是我行开展核心业务所面临的最大单
一风险，通常源自对于零售、公司或者机构借款人的贷款业务或其
他借贷相关承诺。资金和资本市场操作及投资业务同样也会使银行
面临交易对手和发行人的信用风险。我行采用全面的信贷风险评估方法并确保信贷风险管理成为企业风
险管理的有机组成部分，完整的信贷风险管理框架下清晰地定义了
信贷风险识别、计量和管理相关的政策和流程。我行持续监测运营
环境，以识别新出现的风险，并制定适当的缓解措施。风险与资本委员会以及信贷委员会协助行长兼首席执行官和董事会
层级委员会管理银行的整体信贷风险敞口，并商讨所有信贷相关的
问题。其中，信贷委员会还负责在董事会设定的风险偏好和执行委
员会授权的审批限额内批准对借款人和 / 或交易对手的信贷额度和
敞口。风险与资本委员经会商批准信贷风险管理政策，并且承担审
阅和评估银行信贷组合和信贷风险状况的职责。风险管理部下属信贷风险管理部负责制订全行性的信贷政策和指引，
并专注于在审慎、一致和有效的信贷风险管理框架下促进业务发展。
该部门负责信贷风险相关的报告、分析和管理，向银行相关的管理
层委员会提交涵盖各业务部门的详实的信贷风险报告（涉及信贷组
合行业、产品和国别风险等）。风险政策和程序我们建立了信贷政策和流程来管理以下关键领域的信贷风险：Credit risk is the risk of loss arising from any failure by a borrower or 
counterparty to meet its ﬁnancial obligations when they are due. It is the 
single largest risk that we face in our core business as a commercial bank, 
arising primarily from loans and other lending-related commitments to 
retail, corporate and institutional borrowers. Treasury and capital market 
operations and investments also expose the Bank to counterparty and 
issuer credit risks.We adopt a holistic approach towards assessing credit risk and ensures 
that managing credit risk is part of an integrated approach to enterprise 
risk management. Integral to the management of credit risk is a framework 
that clearly deﬁnes policies and processes relating to the identiﬁcation, 
measurement and management of credit risk. We continually monitor 
the operating environment to identify emerging risks and to formulate 
appropriate mitigating actions.Credit Risk Governance and OrganisationThe RCC and ICCC support the CEO and board level committees in 
managing the Bank's overall credit risk exposures and serves as executive 
forum for discussions on all credit-related matters. Particularly, ICCC 
holds the responsibility of approving credit facilities and exposures to 
borrowers and/or counterparties of the Bank within the Risk Appetite 
Limit set by the Board and the discretionary limits delegated by the EXCO. 
RCC discusses and approves credit risk management policies, reviews and 
assesses the Bank's credit portfolios and credit risk proﬁles.The Credit Risk Management Division under Risk Management Function 
develops bank-wide credit policies and guidelines and facilitates business 
development within a framework that results in prudent, consistent 
and efﬁcient credit risk management. It is responsible for the reporting, 
analysis  and  management  of  credit  risk  to  relevant  management 
committees.  The  comprehensive  credit  risk  reports  cover  business 
segments at the overall portfolio level by various dimensions including 
industry, product and country.Credit Risk Policies and ProcessesWe have established credit policies and processes to manage credit risk in 
the following key areas:67策略和
业务风险
Strategic and 
Business Risk策略风险指由于不利的战略决策，决策执行不当或对行业，
经济或科技变化缺乏响应而对收益，资本或声誉造成的当
前或预期的负面影响。
业务风险指由于业务参数的变化，例如业务量，利润和成
本的变化而对收益或资本产生不利影响。Strategic risk refers to the current or prospective negative 
impact on earnings, capital or reputation arising from adverse 
strategic decisions, improper implementation of decisions or a 
lack of responsiveness to industry, economic or technological 
changes.
Business risk refers to the adverse impact on  earnings or 
capital arising from changes in business parameters such as 
volumes, margins and costs.模型风险指由于以下原因所引起的风险：
•  使用无法准确评估市场价格的模型，或不是市场主流的模型（如定价模型）；•  无法准确地估计未来损失的可能性或大小
（如风险度量模型）。Through overall risk governance framework and oversight by 
senior management committees.通过各项重大风险类型下的定量模型管理要求进行管理。This is the risk arising from:
•  the use of inappropriate model which cannot accurately 
evaluate market prices, or which is not a mainstream model 
in the market (such as pricing models); or•  inaccurately estimating the probability or magnitude of 
future losses (such as risk measurement models) and the use 
of those estimates.环境、社会及治理风险是指由声誉损失或环境、社会或治
理（ESG）问题引致的损失或非财务风险。ESG 风险不仅
可由对客户的金融服务间接引起，也可以发端于银行自身
的运营行为。The  risk  of  credit  loss  or  non-financial  risks,  such  as 
reputational damage, arising from environmental, social and 
governance (ESG) issues. While a key component of ESG risk 
arises indirectly from the ﬁnancial services we provide to our 
customers, it can also result directly from our own operations.Managed under the respective material risk types for which 
there is a quantitative model.本行制定了相关管理框架、政策和指引（包括负责任融资
政策） 进行各项 ESG 风险的管控。The different aspects of ESG risk are managed through the 
relevant frameworks, policies and guidelines in place, including 
our Responsible Financing Policy.模型风险
Model Risk环境、社会及
治理风险
Environmental, 
Social and 
Governance 
Risk66风险管理
Risk Management独立的信贷批准Credit Approval Process信贷集中度风险Credit Concentration Risk为保持信贷审批程序的健全和独立性，我行的信贷业务发起与审批
职能相分离。信贷审批授权根据审批官的经验、资历和工作记录予
以委任，所有审批官接受信贷政策和信贷接纳标准的指导。信贷政
策和信贷接纳标准将周期性进行审阅和必要更新，以确保同银行发
展策略和业务环境的连续性和适用性。内部评级系统我行采用内部评级模型来支持信贷风险评估并按照评级对信贷敞口
进行归类。内部评级的使用贯穿于信贷审批、信贷复审和监测、信
贷压力测试、限额设定、定价和催收等领域。相关模型在运用前须
通过独立的验证，以确保它们符合需要。为了持续监测评级模型的
可靠性，所有模型须由其拥有部门进行年度审阅，以确保所选取的
风险因素和假设继续与相应的信贷组合保持适用性。交易对手信用风险与贷款业务在其合约期限内风险敞口按名义金额计量不同，交易对
手信用风险敞口随市场变动因素而波动。我行的交易对手信用风险
的计量是将当前盯市价值加上反映潜在风险暴露（PFE）的附加因子
（add-on）。潜在风险暴露因子是对交易存续期内风险暴露上限的
估计，被用于外汇 / 衍生品交易的限额设立及内部风险管理。外汇、衍生品和证券融资交易的风险敞口通过签订国际掉期及衍生
工具协会（ISDA）主协议或中国银行间市场金融衍生产品交易主协
议（NAFMII）得到缓释。此类安排允许在发生违约事件时以净额结
算方式平盘未了结的交易，从而将我行的风险敞口降到最低。我行
还建立了管控对手方错向风险（Wrong Way Risk）的政策，以管理交
易对手方信贷敞口同其违约风险呈现正相关的情形。此外，衍生品交易也可通过中央交易对手方进行清算，并在可能情
况下通过多边净额结算和每日保证金调整进一步减少交易对手方的
信贷敞口。Credit origination and approval functions are segregated to maintain 
the independence and integrity of the credit approval process. Credit 
approval authority is delegated to officers based on their experience, 
seniority and track record. All credit approval ofﬁcers are guided by credit 
policies and credit acceptance guidelines which are reviewed periodically 
to ensure their continued relevance to the Bank's business strategy and 
the business environment.Internal Rating SystemThe Bank employs internal rating models to support the assessment of 
credit risk and the assignment of exposures to rating grades or pools. 
Internal ratings are used pervasively by the Bank in the areas of credit 
approval, credit review and monitoring, credit stress-testing, limits setting, 
pricing and collections. The models are independently validated before 
they are implemented to ensure they are ﬁt for purpose. The robustness 
of these rating models is monitored on an ongoing basis, and all models 
are subject to annual reviews conducted by model owners to ascertain 
that the chosen risk factors and assumptions continue to remain relevant 
for the respective portfolios.Counterparty Credit RiskUnlike normal lending risk where the notional amount at risk can be 
determined with a high degree of certainty during the contractual period, 
counterparty  credit  risk  exposure  fluctuates  with  market  variables. 
Counterparty credit risk is measured as the sum of current mark-to-market 
value and an appropriate add-on factor for potential future exposure (PFE). 
The PFE factor is an estimate of the maximum credit exposure over the 
remaining life of the foreign exchange (FX) / derivative transaction and is 
used for limit-setting and internal risk management.Exposures arising from FX, derivatives and securities ﬁnancing transactions 
are typically mitigated through agreements such as the International 
Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA) Master Agreements, and the 
National Association of Financial Market Institutional Investors (NAFMII) 
Agreement. Such agreements help to minimise credit exposure by allowing 
us to offset what we owe to counterparty against what is due from that 
counterparty in the event of a default. We have also established policies 
and processes to manage wrong-way risk, i.e. where the counterparty 
credit exposure is positively correlated with its default risk.In  addition,  derivative  transactions  are  cleared  through  Central 
Counterparties, where possible, to reduce counterparty credit exposure 
further through multilateral netting and the daily margining process.信贷集中度风险可能源于单笔的大额信贷敞口或互相关联的多笔敞
口。该类风险通过设定不同种类的限额进行管理，包括集团、特定
组合、借款人、行业和国别等，通常限定为银行资本额的一定百分比。
我行通过稳健的信贷接纳标准、授信结构和监测流程管理信贷风险
敞口。我行积极地降低信贷资产组合可能的集中度风险，目前信贷
资产投放主要集中在国内。信贷压力测试信贷压力测试是信贷资产组合管理的一个重要组成部分。它包括识
别可能对我行信贷风险产生不利影响的事件或未来经济状况变化，
以及评估我行在压力情景中管理金融资源的能力。与此同时，我行
亦会根据监管要求的压力情景和实验参数，对指定的贷款组合实施
信贷压力测试或敏感性分析，以评估压力情况下的贷款质量和资本
状况。信贷风险缓释我行的潜在信贷损失可以通过一系列的增信手段如抵押品、衍生的
交易安排、担保和净额结算等起到风险缓释目的。作为一项基本信
贷原则，我行不允许仅凭建立抵押安排即给予客户授信，所有授信
必须基于对借款人信用水平、还款来源和偿付能力的综合考量。Credit concentration risk may arise from a single large exposure or from 
multiple exposures that are closely correlated. We manage such risks by 
setting exposure limits on borrowers, obligor groups, portfolios, industries 
and countries, generally expressed as a percentage of the Bank's eligible 
capital base. We manage our credit risk exposures through a robust credit 
underwriting, structuring and monitoring process. While we proactively 
minimise undue concentration of exposure in our portfolio, our credit 
portfolio remains concentrated in China.Credit Stress TestCredit  stress-testing  is  a  core  component  of  our  credit  portfolio 
management process. It involves identifying possible events or future 
changes in economic conditions that may have unfavorable effects on 
the Bank's credit exposures, and assessing the Bank's ability to manage 
its ﬁnancial resources through adverse circumstances. Likewise, business 
credit stress test or sensitivity analysis are also conducted to assess 
designated loan portfolio's quality and capital impact under the stress 
scenario and test parameters prescribed by the Regulator.Credit Risk Mitigation尽可能地获取抵押品是作为风险缓释的一种手段，抵押品的价值会
被定期监控。价值评估频度则取决于抵押品的种类、可变现性和价
值波动程度。抵押品多为房地产，同时也可接受现金、有价证券、设备、
存货和应收款项等。抵押品集中度受相关政策和流程监控。抵押品
的市场价值会作适当的扣减，以反映该抵押品的质量、价格波动和
可变现性等基本质素。Our potential credit losses are mitigated through a variety of instruments 
such as collateral, derivatives, guarantees and netting arrangements. The 
Bank would generally not grant credit facilities solely on the basis of the 
collateral provided. All requests for credit facilities are assessed based on 
the credit standing, source of repayment and debt servicing ability of the 
borrower.当向中小型企业提供信贷支持时，通常要求客户的主要股东或董事
提供个人担保以显示并确保其对借款人的承诺和支持。当客户的信
用可靠程度不足以支撑授信时通常会要求公司担保。The Bank takes collateral whenever possible to mitigate the credit risk 
assumed. The value of the collateral is monitored periodically and the 
frequency of valuation depends on the type, liquidity and volatility of 
the collateral value. The collaterals are mostly in the form of properties. 
Cash, marketable securities, equipment, inventories and receivables may 
also be accepted. We have policies and processes to monitor collateral 
concentration. Appropriate haircuts that reﬂect the underlying nature of 
the collaterals, quality, volatility and liquidity would be applied to the 
market value of collaterals as appropriate.When extending credit facilities to small- and medium-sized enterprises 
(SMEs),  we  often  take  personal  guarantees  to  secure  the  moral 
commitment from the principal shareholders and directors. Corporate 
guarantees are often obtained when the borrower's creditworthiness is 
not sufﬁcient to justify an extension of credit.6869风险管理
Risk Management信贷监控和应对管理Credit Monitoring and Remedial Management银行定期监测和分析信贷敞口、信贷组合表现和可能影响整体信用
水平的新显现的风险。董事会和高级管理层通过各类内部风险报告
获得信贷风险趋势的更新情况。我行还建立了信贷早期预警机制，
由业务部门向高级管理层上报发生信贷质量下降客户的情况，以便
商讨应对策略并采取行动。We  regularly  monitor  credit  exposures,  portfolio  performance  and 
emerging risks that may impact our credit risk proﬁle. The Board and senior 
management are updated on credit trends through internal risk reports. 
An early alert process has also been put in place whereby vulnerable 
accounts are escalated by the business units to senior management for 
discussion on account strategy and remedial actions.逾期账户管理Delinquency Monitoring我行密切监控逾期账户，并以此作为信贷质量的一个重要指示标志。
当客户未能按时还本和 / 或付息时，相应账户即构成逾期。所有逾
期账户包括循环授信的信用额度超限都将由业务部门和风险管理部
门按规定程序进行密切监控和管理。当认为必要时，此类账户的信
贷复审间隔将被缩短。贷款分类、损失准备和不良贷款核销We  closely  monitor  the  delinquency  of  borrowing  accounts,  a  key 
indicator of credit quality. An account is considered delinquent when 
payment has not received by the payment  due date. All delinquent 
accounts, including revolving credit facilities with limit excesses, are 
closely monitored and managed through a disciplined process by ofﬁcers 
from business units and risk management function. Where appropriate, 
such accounts are also subject to more frequent credit reviews.我行依据借款人以正常经营收入归还信贷的能力对信贷资产组合进
行分类，并设立独立的信贷复审职能以强化信贷风险分类的合理性。Classiﬁcation, Provisioning and Write-Off所有对客户的贷款和垫付款项按照银保监会的指引要求被分为“正
常”、“关注”和“不良”贷款，其中不良贷款被进一步分为“次级”、“可
疑”或“损失”类。任何逾期或循环授信项下发生额度超限达到 90 天
以上的账户将被自动归为“不良”类。另外，任何因显现不足并可能
对按目前合约还款产生负面影响的账户可被归为“不良”类。会计处
理上对于信贷损失的定义同监管定义总体上一致。提高不良类账户的分类至“正常”或“关注”时，需以借款人的还款能
力、现金流和财务状况的全面评估作为支持依据。银行应确信一旦
被解除不良分类后，该账户将不会在短期内再次被降级。当借款人财务状况恶化或已无力按原定的计划还款，银行会考虑对
贷款进行重组（通常是做出非商业考量的安排）。重组贷款须被划归为“不良”类，并根据银行基于重组条款对借款人
的财务状况和还款能力的评估结果给予适当的信贷分类评级。We classify our credit portfolios according to the borrower's ability to 
repay the credit facilities from their normal source of income. There is an 
independent credit review process to ensure the appropriateness of loan 
grading and classiﬁcation.All borrowing accounts are categorised into 'Pass', 'Special Mention' or 
'Non-performing'. 'Non-performing' or impaired accounts are further sub-
divided into 'Substandard', 'Doubtful' or 'Loss' in accordance with the 
guidelines of CBIRC. Any account which is delinquent (or in excess of 
the approval limit for a revolving credit facility) for more than 90 days 
will automatically be categorised automatically as 'Non-performing'. 
In addition, any account that exhibits weaknesses which are likely to 
adversely affect repayment on existing terms may be categorised as 'Non-
performing'. The accounting definition of impaired and the regulatory 
deﬁnition of default are generally aligned.Upgrading and de-classiﬁcation of a 'Non-performing' account to 'Pass' or 
'Special Mention' status must be supported by a credit assessment of the 
repayment capability, cash ﬂows and ﬁnancial position of the borrower. 
We must also be satisfied that once the account is de-classified, the 
account is unlikely to be classiﬁed again in the near future.A credit facility is restructured when a bank grants concessions (usually 
non-commercial) to a borrower because of a deterioration in the ﬁnancial 
position of the borrower or the inability of the borrower to meet the 
original repayment schedule.A restructured account is categorised as 'Non-performing' and placed on 
the appropriate classiﬁed grade based on our assessment of the ﬁnancial 
condition of the borrower and the ability of the borrower to repay under 
the restructured terms.贷款损失准备的计提严格按照银保监会指引并谨慎考量包括不良账
户项下抵押品变现收入在内的不良信贷未来清收处置价值。当回收
的前景被认为较差或是其它可能的还款来源均被追索受偿后，该账
户才被准予核销。Loan loss provision is made in line with CBIRC guidelines after careful 
consideration  of  the  future  recovery  value  including  liquidation  of 
collateral of the non-performing account. A non-performing account is 
written off when the prospect of a recovery is considered poor or when 
all feasible avenues of recovery have been exhausted.特殊资产管理Special Asset Management特殊资产管理（SAM）职能由独立团队对银行的企业和个人住房
贷款的不良资产组合进行重组、重整或清收。对不良账户进行主
动管理的首要目标是尽量使这些账户恢复财务健康并转回相应业
务部门进行管理，或决定退出该业务关系并最大限度地争取不良
贷款的回收。Special Asset Management are in place with independent units that 
respectively manage the restructuring, workout and recovery of Bank's 
corporate and retail mortgage non-performing portfolios. The primary 
objectives are to nurse non-performing accounts back to ﬁnancial health 
whenever possible for transfer back to business unit for management; and 
to maximise recovery of such accounts that the Bank intends to exit.贷款风险分类及不良贷款情况
 Loans by Classiﬁcation贷款分类
Loans by Classiﬁcation正常 Pass关注 Special Mention次级 Substandard可疑 Doubtful损失 Loss合计 Total人民币（百万元）
Outstanding (RMB'm)36,5352153893-36,882占比
(%)99.0%0.6%0.1%0.3%0.0%100%（贷款行业分布和区域分布信息请参见我行审计财务报告的相关注释部分）
(For "Loans by Industry Distribution and by Geographical Region", please refer to relevant note of the audited ﬁnancial report.)2020 年底，不良贷款合计人民币 1.311 亿元 , 占贷款总额比例为 0.36%。
拨备覆盖率为 664.1%，贷款拨备率为 2.4%，分别高于 120.0% 及 1.5%
的最低监管要求。As at 31 December 2020, total non-performing loans amounted to RMB131.1 
million, representing 0.36 per cent of the Bank's total loans portfolio.   
Non-performing loan coverage ratio was 664.1 per cent and provision-to-
loan ratio was 2.4 per cent, above the regulatory minimum requirement of 
120.0 per cent and 1.5 per cent respectively.7071风险管理
Risk Management市场风险MARKET RISK市场风险是指由于相关资产的市场汇率或价格（例如利率，汇率，
股票价格，商品价格和信贷利差）的变动给银行造成损失的风险。Market risk refers to the risk of loss to the Bank from movements in the 
market rates or prices (such as changes in interest rates, FX rates, equity 
prices, commodity prices and credit spreads) of the underlying asset.市场风险由我行资产负债委员会通过每月例会定期审阅市场风险相
关事务，并为市场风险管理提供指引。风险管理部下属的市场风险
管理及监控部门和资产负债风险管理部门负责提交有关市场风险敞
口的独立报告，供董事会风险管理委员会、风险与资本委员会和资
产负债委员会审阅。我行市场风险管理框架包含市场风险政策、程序、控制和适当的风
险管理授权以及市场风险限额。我行采用的估值方法符合市场惯例，
并且估值与风险模型得到独立验证。此外，推出新产品与服务前，
会通过产品或服务开发流程确保包括市场风险在内的相关风险得到
充分识别和监控管理。我行开展交易账户业务的主要目标之一是提供以客户为中心的产品
和服务，支持客户的业务和对冲需求。我行不断审阅和强化衍生产
品风险管理，以确保合理控制业务复杂性。我行市场风险偏好是考虑了银行整体要求及业务部门目标利润的平
衡的结果，同时也将银行的资本状况考虑其中。从而保证即使在极
端压力条件下，银行依旧保持资本充足。我行将市场风险偏好转化
为风险限额并授权给业务部门管理，业务部门在限额下开展相关业
务所承受的风险与其产生的利润相匹配。我行市场风险偏好涵盖所有交易账户敞口和非交易账户的外汇敞口。
我行市场风险主要源于代客交易行为，结构化产品挂钩的交易行为
以及自营交易等交易组合中利率、汇率和商品价格的变化。我行目前使用标准法计量监管要求下的市场风险资本，使用内部模
型法计量和监控交易账户市场风险。我行在内部市场风险管理中采用 97.5% 置信区间下测算日预期损失
（ES）的历史模拟法。该方法认为诸如利率、汇率和商品价格等风
险因子在未来的变动特征可以通过观察其历史数据得到。ES 是尾部
损失分布的均值，认为通常计量结果大于某一置信区间点计量的潜
在损失。为弥补 ES 测量法的不足，我行借助压力测试及情景测试，找出银行
在面对某些极端情景时可能出现的损失。这些测试为主动市场风险
管理提供了早期预警信息，以应对可能的极端损失。我行 2020 年 12 月 31 日的 ES 为人民币 1,778 万元。Market risk is governed by the ALCO, which meets monthly to review and 
provide directions on market risk matters. The Market Risk Management 
and Product Control (MRPC) and Balance Sheet Risk Management (BSRM) 
Divisions support the BRMC, RCC and ALCO with independent assessment 
of the market risk proﬁle of the Bank.The Bank's market risk framework comprises market risk policies, practices, 
and the control structure with appropriate delegation of authority and 
market risk limits. We employ valuation methodologies that are in line 
with sound market practices and validate valuation and risk models 
independently. In addition, the Product/Service Programme process 
ensures that different risks, including market risk issues, are identiﬁed and 
adequately addressed prior to launch.One of the Bank's main objectives in undertaking trading activities is to 
provide customer-centric products and services to support our customers' 
business and hedging needs. We continually review and enhance our 
management of derivatives risks to ensure that the complexities of the 
business are appropriately controlled.Our overall market risk appetite is balanced with targeted revenue at the 
Bank and business unit levels and takes into account the capital position 
of the Bank. This ensures that the Bank remains well-capitalised, even 
under stress conditions. The risk appetite is translated into risk limits that 
are delegated to business units. These risk limits have proportional returns 
that are commensurate with the risks taken.Market risk appetite is provided for all trading exposure within the Bank 
and the Bank's non-trading FX exposures. The Bank is mainly exposed to 
market risk in its trading portfolios that arises from changes in interest 
rates, FX rates and commodity prices from the Bank's client-driven market 
making and product structuring activities as well as trading activities.The Bank currently adopts the Standardised Approach for the calculation 
of regulatory market risk capital.The Internal Models Approach is used to measure and to control trading 
market risks. The Bank estimates a daily Expected Shortfall (ES) within a 
97.5 per cent confidence interval over a one-day holding period, using the 
historical simulation method, as a control for market risk. This method 
assumes observed historical market movements can be used to imply possible 
future changes in market rates. ES is the average of the worst losses in the 
distribution, assuming that the losses exceed the speciﬁed percentile.To complement the ES measure, we perform stress and scenario tests to 
identify the Bank's vulnerability to event risk. These tests serve to provide 
early warnings of plausible extreme losses.The Bank's daily ES on 31 December 2020 was RMB17.78 million.交易账户回溯测试结果
Trading Backtesting Chart损益 (人民币 千)P/L (CNY'K)大华银行中国-交易账簿回溯测试(假设日损益与99%置信区间下的风险价值比较)UOB China - Backtest Chart (Hypo PL vs. VaR @ 99% CI) 31 Dec 2019 - 31 Dec 2020Hypo PL假设日损益
风险价值VaR20(cid:13)00015,00010,0005,0000(5,000)(10,000)(15,000)(20,000)(25,000)(30,000)31-Dec-1931-Jan-2029-Feb-2031-Mar-2030-Apr-2031-may-2030-Jun-2031-Jul-2031-Aug-2030-Sep-2031-Oct-2030-Nov-2031-Dec-20在回溯测试中，我行采用历史模拟法 99% 置信区间下的日风险价值
（VaR）。VaR 与 ES 的损失分布一致。通过回溯测试比较交易账户的
损益与 VaR 的差异来验证是否有因为模型缺陷或市场波动导致其中
不符合预期的结果。所有回溯测试反映的问题及解决方案都将汇报
至资产负债委员会。For back testing purpose, the Bank uses daily VaR within a 99 per cent 
confidence interval over a one-day holding period. VaR uses the same 
loss  distribution  as  ES.  The  backtesting  process  analyses  whether 
the exceptions are due to model deficiencies or market volatility. All 
backtesting exceptions are tabled to ALCO with recommended actions 
and resolutions.7273风险管理
Risk Management银行账户利率风险INTEREST RATE RISK IN THE BANKING BOOK流动性风险LIQUIDITY RISK银行帐户利率风险指由于利率的不利变动可能导致银行经济价值或
者整体收益遭受损失的风险。Interest rate risk in the banking book (IRRBB) is defined as the risk of 
potential loss of capital or reduction in earnings due to changes in the 
interest rates environment.我们致力于满足客户对于不同利率结构和期限的产品的需求和偏好。
资产负债的重定价期限和其他特征的错配使其对利率变动有不同的
敏感度，而随着利率水平和收益率曲线的变动，将导致银行的经济
价值的变动或者收益的减少。利率风险管理的主要目标就是在多样
化的经济环境中，通过确保银行有充足、稳定、可靠的净利息收入
来保护并促进银行资本和经济价值的增长。资产负债委员会负责总揽利率风险管理框架的有效性，包括对政策，
流程和限额的批准。资产负债风险管理部协助资产负债委员会负责
监测银行账户下的利率风险。各种应用的行为模型均依据相应的政
策经过独立的验证和管理。拟采用对冲工具和策略对银行帐户利率
风险进行管理须遵循银行制定的银行帐户利率风险管理政策，并定
期重新审阅。通过对相应委员会批准对业务部门的授权，以及设定
的限额和警戒线的密切监控，确保银行保持谨慎并对潜在的风险进
行讨论并及时采取行动。我行每月定期通过动态模拟的方法计量银行帐户利率风险。通过使
用集成流动性风险和银行账户利率风险管理的内部统一风险平台确
保及时的风险报告，并进行全面的资产负债风险管理。
 
利率敏感度受重新定价期限、币种，隐含的期权和基准利率的影响。
隐含的期权包括贷款的提前还款和定期存款的提取支取。我行采用
基于经济价值的方法计量银行账户表内外业务的未来重定价现金流
的净现值，来揭示利率变动对银行经济价值潜在影响；同时采用基
于净利息的方法来计量未来利率走势和可能的业务变化对银行净利
息收入的潜在影响。相比于短期错配，长期的利率错配对利率头寸
经济价值的影响更大，而短期的利率错配对净利息收入的影响更大。
模拟利率变动的情景包括巴塞尔委员会定义的六种标准化利率冲击
情景，包括收益率曲线上移、下移和形状变化。我行亦采用定量分析方法定期进行利率风险压力测试 , 以确保银行有
足够的资本金应付因为利率的大幅波动对银行资产负债表的影响。
同时，该压力测试也用于对极端情况下可能发生高额损失的早期预
警并促进银行在快速波动的市场环境下积极地管理利率风险。由于利率，汇率和股权价格变化带来交易账户下的风险通过市场风
险管理框架来进行管理和监控。In the course of our core banking activities, the bank strives to meet 
customers' demands and preferences for products with various interest 
rate  structures  and  maturities.  Mismatches  in  repricing  and  other 
characteristics of assets and liabilities give rise to sensitivity to interest 
rate movements. As interest rates and yield curves change over time, these 
mismatches may result in a change in the bank's economic net worth and/
or a decline in earnings. Our primary objective of managing IRRBB is to 
protect and to enhance capital or economic net worth through adequate, 
stable and reliable growth in net interest earnings under a broad range of 
possible economic conditions.The ALCO maintains oversight of the effectiveness of the interest rate risk 
management structure including approval of policies, controls and limits. 
The BSRM Division supports the ALCO in monitoring the interest rate risk 
proﬁle of the banking book. Behavioural models used are independently 
validated and governed by approved policy. Management and mitigation 
of IRRBB through hedging instruments and activities are governed by 
the Bank's IRRBB policies which are subject to regular review. Monitoring 
of positions against mandates, limits and triggers approved by relevant 
committees and delegated to relevant business units provide alerts for 
timely discussions to control potential risks.The Bank's banking book interest rate risk exposure is quantified on a 
monthly basis using dynamic simulation techniques. The Bank employs 
a holistic approach towards balance sheet risk management, using an in-
house enterprise risk management system to integrate liquidity risk and 
IRRBB into a single platform for the Bank's reporting in a timely manner.Interest rate risk varies with different repricing periods, currencies and 
embedded options and interest rate basis. Embedded options may be in the 
form of loan prepayment and time deposit early withdrawal. In Economic 
Value of Equity (EVE) sensitivity simulations, we compute the present 
value for repricing cash flows, with the focus on changes in EVE under 
different interest rate scenarios. This economic perspective measures 
interest rate risks across the full maturity profile of the balance sheet, 
including off-balance sheet items. We estimate the potential effects 
of interest rate changes on Net Interest Income (NII) by simulating the 
possible future course of interest rates and expected changes in business 
activities over time. Mismatches in the longer tenor will experience 
greater change in EVE than similar positions in the shorter tenor while 
mismatches in the shorter tenor will have a greater impact on NII. Interest 
rate scenarios used in simulations include the six standard scenarios 
prescribed by Basel including positive and negative tilt scenarios.We also perform stress tests regularly to determine the adequacy of 
capital in meeting the impact of extreme interest rate movements on the 
balance sheet. Such tests are also performed to provide early warnings 
of potential extreme losses, facilitating the proactive management of 
interest rate risks in an environment of rapid ﬁnancial market changes.The risks arising from the trading book, such as interest rates, FX rates 
and equity prices are managed and controlled under the market risk 
framework.流动性风险是指商业银行无法以合理成本及时获得充足资金，用
于偿付到期债务、履行其他支付义务和满足正常业务开展的其他
资金需求的风险。我行保持充足的流动性以保障银行日常运营的
开展，满足存款的提款和贷款的发放，投资新项目以及支付到期
的借款。因此，流动性管理的主旨在于应付银行确定的及不可确
定的资金需求。Liquidity risk is the risk that arises from our inability to meet its obligations 
or fund increases in assets as they fall due. We maintain sufﬁcient liquidity 
to fund our day-to-day operations, to meet deposit withdrawals and loan 
disbursements, to participate in new investments and to repay borrowings. 
Hence, liquidity is managed in a manner that addresses known as well as 
unanticipated cash funding needs.我行流动性风险管理是在完整的风险管理框架下进行的，包含经由
资产负债委员会批准的各项政策、控制流程、风险限额。这些政策、
控制流程及风险限额确保我行在不同的市场环境下有充足的资金以
应对流动性需求。具体措施：Liquidity risk is managed in accordance with a framework of policies, 
controls and limits approved by the ALCO. These policies, controls and 
limits enable us to monitor and to manage liquidity risk to ensure that 
sufﬁcient sources of funds are available over a range of market conditions. 
This is done by:•  通过多样化资金的来源及其期限将资金集中度降至最小，以及
•  持有高流动性债券。我行在流动性风险管理方面采取保守立场，持续的吸收核心存款，
严格遵守流动性风险额度，保留充足的流动资产等措施来防范可能
出现的资金短缺。我行通过主动分散存款的来源，以确保成本效率的均衡，资金的持
续可获得以及资金来源的多样化。确保流动性重要的因素还包括通
过竞争性定价，积极主动地管理银行的核心存款以及维护客户的信
心。和监管当局的流动性风险管理框架一致，我行通过预测银行现金流
来度量和管理流动性风险，现金流的预测是基于“正常业务情景”和
“压力情景”来进行。我行设置现金流错配限额来控制银行流动性风
险敞口的同时，还采用流动性早期预警指标和警戒线以揭示可能出
现的危机状况。我行的流动性比率、优质流动性资产充足率、流动
性匹配率均高于监管要求的水平。我行在建立的流动性应急计划中运用一系列的预警指标揭示可能发
生的流动性危机。在该应急计划中，我行通过设立危机上报流程及
包括融资、沟通计划等危机处理策略来减少流动性危机所带来的负
面影响。•  minimising excessive funding concentrations by diversifying the sourcesand terms of funding, and•  maintaining a portfolio of high quality and marketable debt securities.We take a conservative stance in the Bank's liquidity management by 
continuing to gather core deposits, ensuring that liquidity limits are 
strictly adhered to and that there are adequate liquid assets to meet 
potential cash shortfall.The distribution of deposits is actively managed to ensure a balance 
between  cost-effectiveness,  continued  accessibility  to  funds  and 
diversiﬁcation of funding sources. Important factors in ensuring liquidity 
are competitive pricing, proactive management of the Bank's core deposits 
and the maintenance of customer conﬁdence.Our liquidity risk is aligned with the regulatory liquidity risk management 
framework and is measured and managed on a projected cash ﬂow basis. 
The bank is monitored under business-as-usual and stress scenarios. Cash 
ﬂow mismatch limits are established to limit the bank's liquidity exposure. 
We also employ liquidity early warning indicators and trigger points 
to signal possible contingency situations. Our Liquidity Ratio (LR), High 
Quality Liquid Asset Adequacy Ratio (HQLAAR) and Liquidity Matching 
Ratio (LMR) are above the regulatory requirements.We have contingency funding plans in place to identify potential liquidity 
crises using a series of warning indicators. Crisis management processes 
and various strategies including funding and communication plans have 
been developed to minimise the impact of any liquidity crunch.7475风险管理
Risk Management操作风险OPERATIONAL RISK信息科技风险Technology Risk操作风险是指由不完善或有问题的内部程序、员工和信息科技系统，
以及外部事件所造成损失的风险。操作风险涵盖银行营运风险、信
息科技风险、监管合规风险、法律风险、声誉风险、外包风险与欺
诈风险， 但不包括战略风险和业务风险。我行的主要目标是促进建立良好的声誉和经营环境。我行基于已建
立的操作风险管理政策、流程所形成的框架对操作风险进行管理，
帮助业务和支持部门合理地识别、评估、监测、缓释和及时上报各
自业务领域相应操作风险进行。操作风险管理委员会定期召开月度
会议监督管理操作风险有关事宜。我行操作风险治理架构采用“三道防线”的模式。操作风险管理部作
为第二道防线的组成部分，通过相应框架、政策、程序和系统对操
作风险进行总体治理。同时，监测关键风险自我评估结果、外包事项、
关键操作风险指标超过预警阈值、自我识别的操作风险以及操作风
险损失事件，并将此类问题向相关高级管理委员会及董事会进行报
告。风险识别和控制自我评估是我行操作风险管理框架的两项重要组成
部分。通过在全行范围实施一系列操作风险管理程序加以实现。我
行制定了多项风险缓释政策和规程以维持稳健的经营环境。我行的业务连续性和危机管理程序，确保了在发生意外事件时，关
键业务和支持部门得以迅速恢复。管理层向董事会提交年度验证报
告，陈述本行业务连续性就绪情况。我行的保险计划覆盖刑事和民事责任，网络责任，财产毁损，恐怖
行动，公共责任以及董事和高级管理人员责任，通过充分的保险保
障以降低操作损失。我行采用基本指标法计提操作风险资本。我行所关注的操作风险项下主要风险包括但不限于：Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed 
internal  processes,  people  and  systems,  or  from  external  events. 
Operational  risk  includes  banking  operations  risk,  technology  risk, 
regulatory compliance risk, legal risk, reputational risk, outsourcing risk 
and fraud risk but excludes strategic and business risk.Our primary objective is to foster a sound reputation and operating 
environment. Operational risk is managed through a framework of policies 
and procedures to help business and support units properly identify, 
assess, monitor, mitigate and report their risks. The ORMC meets monthly 
to provide oversight of operational risk matters in the bank.The Operational Risk Governance structure adopts the three Lines model. 
The Operational Risk Management Division, as part of the Second line, 
provides overarching governance of operational risk through relevant 
frameworks, policies, programmes and systems. It also monitors key risk 
self-assessment results, outsourcing matters, key operational risk indicator 
breaches, self-identiﬁed operational risks and incidents, and reports these 
to the relevant senior management committees and the Board.Two key components of the operational risk management framework 
are risk identification and control self-assessments. These are achieved 
through  the  Bank-wide  implementation  of  a  set  of  operational  risk 
programmes. Several risk mitigation policies and programmes are in place 
to maintain a sound operating environment.Our  business  continuity  and  crisis  management  programmes  ensure 
prompt recovery of critical business and support units should there be 
unforeseen events. An annual attestation is provided to the Board on the 
state of business continuity readiness of the Bank.Our insurance programme covers crime and civil liability, cyber liability, 
property damage, terrorism, public liability, as well as directors' and 
officers' liability. The programme reduces operational losses through 
adequate insurance coverage.We adopt the Basic Indicator Approach for the calculation of Operational 
Risk Capital.The subject-speciﬁc key risks that we focus on include but are not limited 
to:信息科技风险是指由于使用或依赖信息和通信技术而产生的任何潜
在的不利后果、损坏、损失、违规、失败或中断。操作风险管理委
员会负责信息科技风险的治理，其对全行的操作风险事项进行全面
监督。我行的信息科技风险管理框架确保我行以系统且一致的方式
管理信息科技和网络风险。信息科技风险管理的范围涵盖很多方面，
包括信息科技资产管理、业务连续性管理中的技术弹性和服务连续
性问题、网络安全管理以及信息安全管理。作为第二道防线的组成部分，我行的信息科技风险管理部对全行的
信息科技风险管理进行监督，该团队与包括信息科技和安全团队在
内的业务和支持部门密切合作，监督、检查和加强各部门在信息科
技风险管理方面的现行做法。我行采用风险导向的方法评估及管理
信息科技和网络风险，并定期向董事会、高级管理层以及操作风险
管理委员会报告信息科技风险偏好及信息科技风险事项。监管合规风险监管合规风险是指违反法律、法规、规定、标准或银行行为准则而
引起的风险。我行通过监管合规风险治理框架及其辅助政策、流程
和指引对合规风险加以识别、监测和管理。该框架也覆盖对制裁、
反洗钱和反恐怖融资相关的监管违规风险的管理。法律风险法律风险来自不可执行的、不利的、有缺陷的或违背意愿的合同；
与我行有关的诉讼或请求；法律法规的变化；或与适用的法律法规
不合规。业务和支持部门协同我行内外部法律顾问管理法律风险。声誉风险声誉风险是指因银行利益相关方对我行经营方式、业务活动和财务
状况的负面预期或看法，进而对我行盈利能力、流动性或资本产生
不利影响的风险。我行充分认识到声誉风险影响并通过声誉风险管
理政策管理我行声誉风险。Technology risk is defined as any potential adverse outcome, damage, 
loss, violation, failure or disruption arising from the use of or reliance 
on  information  and  communication  technologies.  The  governance 
of  technology  risk  rests  with  the  ORMC,  who  facilitates  a  holistic 
oversight of operational risk matters across the Bank. Our technology 
risk management framework ensures that technology and cyber risks are 
managed in a systematic and consistent manner. The scope of technology 
risk  management  covers  many  aspects,  including  technology  asset 
management, technology resiliency and the service continuity aspects 
of business continuity management, cybersecurity management and 
information security management.Our Technology Risk Management Division, as part of the Second Line, 
has governance and oversight of technology risk management across the 
Bank. The team works closely with business and support units, including 
the technology and information security teams, to oversee, to review 
and to strengthen their current practices in technology risk management. 
We adopt a risk-based approach in assessing and managing technology 
and cyber risks. Our Board, senior management and ORMC are briefed 
regularly on technology risk appetite and technology risk matters.Regulatory Compliance RiskRegulatory compliance risk refers to the risk of non-compliance with 
laws, regulations, rules, standards and the UOB Codes of Conduct. We 
identify, monitor and manage this risk through the Regulatory Compliance 
Risk Governance framework supported with policies, procedures and 
guidelines. The framework also manages the risk of regulatory breaches 
relating to sanctions, anti-money laundering and countering the ﬁnancing 
of terrorism.Legal RiskLegal  risk  arises  from  unenforceable,  unfavourable,  defective  or 
unintended contracts, lawsuits or claims, developments in laws and 
regulations, or non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations. 
Business and support units work with both internal and external legal 
counsel to ensure that legal risks are managed.Reputational RiskReputational risk is the risk of adverse impact on earnings, liquidity or 
capital arising from negative stakeholder perception or opinion of the 
Bank's business practices, activities and ﬁnancial condition. We recognise 
the impact of reputational risk and manage the risk through the Bank's 
Reputational Risk Management Policy.7677风险管理
Risk Management外包风险Outsourcing Risk环境、社会及治理风险ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE RISK外包风险是由于服务提供商未能提供外包服务、未遵守法律和监管
要求、违反保密规定而对我行财务、经营、声誉，法律和合规产生
负面影响的风险。我行通过外包风险管理框架、政策和规程与指引，
以及全面操作风险管理系统的外包模块的辅助支持，对外包风险加
以管理。欺诈风险Outsourcing  risk  is  the  risk  of  adverse  financial,  operational,  and 
reputational, legal and compliance impact arising from the failure of a 
service provider to provide the outsourced service or to comply with legal 
and regulatory requirements, or a service provider's breaches of security. 
We manage this risk through the Bank's Outsourcing Risk Management 
Framework,  policies,  procedures  and  guidelines,  supported  by  the 
outsourcing module in the Governance, Risk and Compliance system.欺诈是指具有欺骗或掩盖事实等特征的行为，不仅限与获取金钱或
实质利益相关。Fraud Risk我们积极管控欺诈风险。在公司治理方面，欺诈风险由董事会下设
审计委员会负责监督，在管理层由操作风险管理委员会实施监督，
并由分别设立于总行及各分行的案件防控工作组提供支持。欺诈风
险管理部作为第二道防线，推动欺诈风险管理策略与治理的实施，
并监督欺诈风险管理框架与政策的执行，包括牵头案件防控工作组
的工作以落实监管部门相关要求。全体员工均须遵循《大华银行中国员工行为准则》，其中包含反贿
赂和反腐败的有关规定。欺诈风险管理部负责管理的大华银行中国
欺诈事件举报热线，提供了一个举报疑似欺诈的安全渠道。欺诈风
险管理部实施独立的欺诈调查。该部门也与业务及支持部门紧密协
作，从预防、侦测、调查、整改及报告等五个方面持续加强全行欺
诈风险管理体系的运行。Fraud is deﬁned as an act, with an element to deceive or to conceal facts; 
and is not restricted to the gain of monetary or material beneﬁts.We manage fraud risks actively. The corporate governance oversight of 
fraud risk is provided by the AC at the Board level and primarily by the 
ORMC at the Management level, supported by Anti-Fraud Working Groups 
set up in headquarters and branches. Our Integrated Fraud Management 
(IFM) Division, as the Second Line, drives strategy and governance and 
oversees the framework and policy of fraud risk management across the 
country, which covers Anti-Fraud tasks in accordance with our regulatory 
requirements as well.All employees are required to comply with the UOB China Code of 
Conduct, which has anti-bribery and anti-corruption provisions. The UOB 
China's fraud hotline managed by IFM provides a safe channel to report 
suspected fraud. IFM conducts independent fraud investigations. The 
division also works closely with business and support units to strengthen 
its practices across the five pillars of prevention, detection, response, 
remediation and reporting.78环境、社会和治理风险（ESG）风险是指由 ESG 问题引致的信贷损失
或非金融风险。虽然 ESG 风险主要间接源于我们为客户提供的金融
服务，但它也可能来自我行自身的运营行为。已建立的 ESG 治理和
控制流程，可识别和审阅就我行而言有实质影响的 ESG 因素，并确
保我行业务方各面 ( 包括日常决策 ) 都考虑了可持续发展因素。各因
素范畴的特定风险则根据各自的政策或指导方针进行监控和管理。针对批发银行融资活动，我行确保将 ESG 纳入信贷评估和批准流程。
为此，我们已将负责任融资政策 ( 经风险与资本委员会批准 ) 作为银
行企业信贷政策的一部分付诸实施。根据负责任融资政策，在新客户引入和年度信贷审阅期间，客户经
理必须对新增和现有借款人做完善的尽职调查。根据负责任融资指
引要求，对高 ESG 风险行业的借款人需要强化尽职调查流程。所有
借款人都要根据 ESG 风险水平进行分类，并持续监测任何与 ESG 相
关的不利消息。如果发生任何已知重大 ESG 事件，应对相关客户立
即进行审阅以确定 ESG 风险状况并采取妥善的缓释措施。策略风险和业务风险策略风险指由于不利的战略决策，决策执行不当或对行业，经济或
科技变化缺乏响应，而对收益、资本或声誉造成当前或预期的负面
影响。策略风险可能导致无法实现银行的战略目标。业务风险指由于业务参数的变化，例如业务量，利润和成本的变化
而对收益或资本产生不利影响。业务风险的来源包括产品或价格缺
乏竞争力，内部效率低下以及总体业务环境的变化，例如市场收缩
或客户期望和需求的变化。业务风险可能导致无法实现银行的短期
业务目标。我行董事会和高级管理层委员会负责与银行业务相关的风险治理。
董事会下执行委员会协助董事会处理策略风险和业务风险管理事宜。
行长兼首席执行官，在高级管理层委员会的支持下，负责银行日常
管理，并在银行的风险偏好内进行业务决策。在考虑到宏观经济环
境的情况下，本行的战略转化为年度财务目标，并传导至业务条线
制定和实施有针对性的业务部门战略。ESG risk is the risk of credit loss or non-financial risks arising from ESG 
issues. While a key component of ESG risk arises indirectly from the 
ﬁnancial services we provide to our customers, it can also result directly 
from our own operations. ESG governance and control process are put in 
place to identify and review ESG factors material to the Bank, and ensures 
that sustainability factors are considered in aspects of our operations 
(including  day-to-day  decision-making  processes).  The  specific  risk 
associated with each factor is monitored and managed in accordance with 
the respective policy or guidelines.Speciﬁc to our wholesale ﬁnancing activities, the Bank ensure that ESG 
considerations are integrated into the credit evaluation and approval 
processes. To this end, we have made our Responsible Financing Policy 
(approved by the RCC) a part of the Bank's Corporate Credit Policy.Under our Responsible Financing Policy, account officers are required 
to  conduct  due  diligence  on  all  new  and  existing  borrowers  during 
the client onboarding process and annual credit review. Borrowers in 
the ESG-sensitive industries per Responsible Financing Guidelines are 
subject to enhanced due diligence with sector-specific guidelines. All 
borrowers are classiﬁed based on the level of ESG risk in their business 
and are monitored on an ongoing basis for any adverse ESG-related news. 
Those with any known material ESG-related incidents would trigger an 
immediate review to address the ESG risks appropriately.STRATEGIC AND BUSINESS RISKStrategic risk refers to the current or prospective negative impact on 
earnings, capital or reputation arising from adverse strategic decisions, 
improper implementation of decisions or a lack of responsiveness to 
industry, economic or technological changes. It is the risk of not achieving 
the Bank's strategic goals.Business risk refers to the adverse impact on earnings or capital arising 
from changes in business parameters such as volumes, margins and costs. 
The sources of business risk include uncompetitive products or pricing, 
internal inefﬁciencies, and changes in general business conditions such as 
market contraction or changes in customers' expectations and demand. It 
is the risk of not achieving the Bank's short-term business objectives.The  Board  of  Directors  and  senior  management  committees  are 
responsible for managing risks associated with the Bank's business. The 
Executive Committee assist the Board in relation to the management of 
strategic and business risks. The CEO, supported by senior management 
committees oversee the day-to-day management of the Bank and make 
business decisions within the Bank's risk appetite. The Bank's strategy 
is then translated into annual financial targets, taking into account the 
macroeconomic environment, and cascaded to specific business for 
development and implementation.79重要事项
Important Highlights营业网点
Branch Network（一）股东情况(1) Shareholder Status Update股东名称 : 大华银行有限公司，持股比 100%。（二）报告期内，我行无合并、分立等其他重大事项发生。（三）报告期内，我行董事、监事及高级管理人员无受监管部门处罚的情况发生。（四）报告期内我行发生的重大事件•  2020 年 1 月，北京分行改为无地铺分行。
•  2020 年 11 月，北京燕莎中心支行关闭。
•  2020 年 12 月，杨瑞琪经中国银行保险监督管理委员会上海监管局批复，正式任命为我行副行长。•  2020 年 12 月，我行行长兼首席执行官符懋赞，经中国银行保险监督管理委员会批复，正式任命为恒丰银行非执行董事。Name of Shareholder: United Overseas Bank Limited 
Percentage of shares held: 100 per cent.(2)  During the reporting period, there were no splitor merger activities or other major corporate 
developments during the reporting period.(3)  None of the Bank's directors, supervisors or topmanagement was penalised by the regulatory 
authorities during the reporting period.(4)  Highlights during the reporting period:• 
• 
••In January 2020, Beijing Branch was converted to a sky branch.
In November 2020, Beijing Lufthansa Center Sub-branch was closed.
In December 2020,  Mr Mark Yang has appointed as the Alternate 
Country Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of UOB China upon the approval of 
China Banking and Insurance Regulatory Commission (CBIRC) Shanghai 
Bureau.
In December 2020, Mr Peter Foo has appointed as the non-executive 
director of Heng Feng Bank upon the approval of CBIRC.总行
上海市浦东新区银城路
116 号、128 号 
邮编 : 200120
电话 : (86) (21) 6061 8888
传真 : (86) (21) 6886 0908
SWIFT: UOVBCNSH
网址 : www.uobchina.com.cn上海分行
上海市浦东新区银城路
116 号、128 号 102 室
邮编 : 200120
电话 : (86) (21) 6061 8288
传真 : (86) (21) 6886 1113静安支行
( 上海 )
上海市静安区南京西路 1468 号
中欣大厦 1P01-02 室、201-203 室
邮编 : 200040
电话 : (86) (21) 6080 9366
传真 : (86) (21) 6289 1001徐家汇支行
( 上海 )
上海市徐汇区虹桥路 1 号
港汇广场办公楼第一座 30 层
01-03 号单元
邮编 : 200030
电话 : (86) (21) 6091 5788
传真 : (86) (21) 6323 3015上海自贸试验区支行
（对公业务）
上海自由贸易试验区银城路
116、128 号
大华银行大厦六层 602 室
邮编 : 200120
电话 : (86) (21) 6061 8176
传真 : (86) (21) 6886 0906Head Ofﬁce
No 116, 128 Yincheng Road, 
Pudong New Area, 
Shanghai 200120
Tel: (86) (21) 6061 8888
Fax: (86) (21) 6886 0908
SWIFT: UOVBCNSH
Website: www.uobchina.com.cnShanghai Branch
Room 102,
No 116, 128 Yincheng Road, 
Pudong New Area, 
Shanghai 200120
Tel: (86) (21) 6061 8288
Fax: (86) (21) 6886 1113北京分行
北京市朝阳区景华南街 5 号
远洋光华国际 C 栋
25 层 01-03 单元、05-09 单元
邮编 : 100020
电话 : (86) (10) 5879 2626
传真 : (86) (10) 8590 6725成都分行
成都市锦江区红星路三段 1 号
国际金融中心一号办公楼 21
楼单元 8,9 及 10 
邮编 : 610021
电话 : (86) (28) 6879 2888
传真 : (86) (28) 8653 1878Jing'An Sub-branch 
(Shanghai)
Room 1P01-02, 201-203, 
United Plaza, 
1468 Nanjing Road West, 
Jing'An District,
Shanghai 200040
Tel: (86) (21) 6080 9366
Fax: (86) (21) 6289 1001Xujiahui Sub-branch (Shanghai)
Unit 01-03, 30 Floor, 
Grand Gateway Tower 1, 
1 Hongqiao Road, 
Xuhui District, 
Shanghai 200030
Tel: (86) (21) 6091 5788
Fax: (86) (21) 6323 3015Shanghai Pilot Free Trade Zone 
Sub-branch
 (Wholesale Banking Only)
Room 602, 6 Floor, 
No 116, 128 Yincheng Road, 
Shanghai Pilot Free Trade Zone,  
Shanghai 200120
Tel: (86) (21) 6061 8176
Fax: (86) (21) 6886 0906昆明分行
（对公业务）
昆明市五华区崇仁街 1 号
东方柏丰首座商务中心
东楼 21 层 2105、2106 号
邮编 : 650000
电话 : (86) (871) 6555 0777
传真 : (86) (871) 6361 6191广州分行
（对公业务）
广州市天河区天河路 385 号
太古汇 1 座 3801 室
邮编 : 510620
电话 : (86) (20) 2881 3688
传真 : (86) (20) 8755 8830沈阳分行
沈阳市沈河区北站路 61 号
沈阳财富中心项目 A 座
21 层 06/07 号
邮编 : 110013
电话 : (86) (24) 3121 2168   
传真 : (86) (24) 3116 2078Beijing Branch 
Unit 01-03, 05-09 25 Floor, 
Tower C Ofﬁce Park, 
No. 5 Jing Hua South Street, 
Chaoyang District,   
Beijing 100020
Tel: (86) (10) 5879 2626
Fax: (86) (10) 8590 6725Chengdu Branch
Unit 8, 9, 10, 21 Floor, 
Ofﬁce Tower 1, Chengdu IFS, 
No 1 Section 3 Hongxing Road, 
Jinjiang District,   
Chengdu 610021
Tel:  (86) (28) 6879 2888
Fax: (86) (28) 8653 1878Kunming Branch
 (Wholesale Banking Only)
Unit 2105 and 2106, 21 Floor, 
East Tower, MASTER, 
No 1 Chongren Street, 
Wuhua District, 
Kunming 650000   
Tel: (86) (871) 6555 0777
Fax: (86) (871) 6361 6191Guangzhou Branch 
(Wholesale Banking Only)
Suite 3801, TaiKoo Hui Tower 1
385 Tianhe Road, 
Tianhe District, 
Guangzhou 510620 
Tel: (86) (20) 2881 3688
Fax: (86) (20) 8755 8830Shenyang Branch
Unit 06/07, 21 Floor, 
Fortune Plaza Tower A, 
No 61, Beizhan Road, 
Shenhe District,   
Shenyang 110013
Tel: (86) (24) 3121 2168  
Fax: (86) (24) 3116 20788081营业网点
Branch Network深圳分行
（对公业务）
深圳市罗湖区深南东路 5016 号
京基一百大厦
A-6001-03 单元
邮编 : 518001
电话 : (86) (755) 2294 5688
传真 : (86) (755) 8246 3326Shenzhen Branch 
(Wholesale Banking Only)
Unit 6001-03, Tower A, 
KingKey 100, 
No 5016 Shennan Road East, 
Luohu District,
Shenzhen 518001
Tel: (86) (755) 2294 5688
Fax: (86) (755) 8246 3326重庆分行
重庆市渝中区民生路 235 号
海航保利国际中心写字楼
31 层 A 单元
邮编 : 400010
电话 : (86) (23) 6037 2888
传真 : (86) (23) 6037 2788Chongqing Branch
Unit A, 31 Floor 
HNA-POLY International Centre, 
No 235 Min Sheng Road, 
Yuzhong District,    
Chongqing 400010 
Tel: (86) (23) 6037 2888
Fax: (86) (23) 6037 2788厦门分行
厦门市湖滨北路 19 号
大华银行大厦 1-2 层
邮编 : 361012
电话 : (86) (592) 508 1601
传真 : (86) (592) 508 1605Xiamen Branch
1-2 Floor, 
United Overseas Bank Building, 
No 19 North Hubin Road, 
Xiamen 361012
Tel: (86) (592) 508 1601
Fax: (86) (592) 508 1605苏州分行
( 对公业务）
苏州工业园区华池街 88 号
晋合广场 1 幢 1801 室
邮编 : 215000
电话 : (86) (512) 6298 5200
传真 : (86) (512) 8686 2006Suzhou Branch
 (Wholesale Banking Only)
Unit 1801, Tower 1, 
Jinghope Square,
No 88 Huachi Street, 
Suzhou Industrial Park,    
Suzhou 215000
Tel: (86) (512) 6298 5200
Fax: (86) (512) 8686 2006中山分行
（对公业务）
广东省中山市中山三路 16 号
之三国际金融中心
37 层 1、2、12 卡
邮编 : 528400
电话 : (86) (760) 8770 7666
传真 : (86) (760) 8989 2900Zhongshan Branch
 (Wholesale Banking Only)
Unit 1,2 and 12, 37 Floor, 
Zhisan International Financial Centre, 
No 16 Zhongshan San Road,   
Zhongshan 528400
Tel: (86) (760) 8770 7666
Fax: (86) (760) 8989 2900天津分行
天津市南开区长江道与
南开三马路交口
融汇广场 2-1-2207、2208、
2209
邮编 : 300100
电话 : (86) (22) 8701 7070
传真 : (86) (22) 8738 0500杭州分行
杭州市西湖区天目山路 181 号
天际大厦 201、203 室
邮编 : 310013
电话 : (86) (571) 2809 0666
传真 : (86) (571) 8190 9619Tianjin Branch
Unit 2-1-2207, 2208 and 2209, 
RongHui Plaza, 
Changjiang Road, 
Nankai District, 
Tianjin 300100
Tel: (86) (22) 8701 7070
Fax: (86) (22) 873 80500Hangzhou Branch
Room 201 and 203, 
Skyline Plaza,
No 181 Tian Mu Shan Road, 
Xihu District, 
Hangzhou 310013
Tel: (86) (571) 2809 0666
Fax: (86) (571) 8190 9619大华银行 ( 中国 ) 有限公司
2020 年 12 月 31 日
United Overseas Bank (China) Limited
31 December 2020已审财务报表
Audited Financial Statements84  一、审计报告AUDITORS'  REPORT89  二、财务报表AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS89909192941.  资产负债表Balance Sheet2.  利润表Income Statement3.  所有者权益变动表Statement of Changes in Equity4.  现金流量表Statement of Cash Flows5.  财务报表附注Notes to Financial Statements8283审计报告
Auditors' Report8485审计报告
Auditors' ReportErnst & Young Hua Ming (2021) Shen Zi No 60658622_B01
United Overseas Bank (China) LimitedTo the Board of Directors of United Overseas Bank (China) Limited:(I) OpinionWe  have  audited  the  accompanying  financial  statements  of  United 
Overseas Bank (China) Limited (hereinafter referred to as "the Bank"), 
which comprise the balance sheet as at 31 December 2020, the income 
statement, the statement of changes in equity and the statement of cash 
ﬂows for the year then ended, and notes to the ﬁnancial statements.In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements present fairly, in 
all material respects, United Overseas Bank (China) Limited's financial 
position  as  at  31  December  2020  and  United  Overseas  Bank  (China) 
Limited's ﬁnancial performance and cash ﬂows for the year then ended in 
accordance with Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises ("ASBEs").(II)  Basis for OpinionWe conducted our audit in accordance with China Standards on Auditing 
("CSAs"). Our responsibilities under those standards are further described 
in the Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the ﬁnancial statements 
section of our report. We are independent of United Overseas Bank 
(China) Limited in accordance with China Code of Ethics for Certified 
Public Accountants (the "Code"), and we have fulﬁlled our other ethical 
responsibilities in accordance with the Code.  We believe that the audit 
evidence we have obtained is sufﬁcient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our opinion.(III)  Responsibilities of the management and those chargedwith governance for the ﬁnancial statementsThe management of United Overseas Bank (China) Limited is responsible 
for the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in 
accordance with ASBEs, and for designing, implementing and maintaining 
such internal control as the management determines is necessary to 
enable the preparation of ﬁnancial statements that are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.In preparing the ﬁnancial statements, the management is responsible for 
assessing United Overseas Bank (China) Limited's ability to continue as a 
going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern 
and using the going concern basis of accounting, unless the management 
either intends to liquidate United Overseas Bank (China) Limited or to 
cease operations or has no realistic alternative but to do so.Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing United 
Overseas Bank (China) Limited's ﬁnancial reporting process.(IV)  Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the ﬁnancialstatementsOur objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the 
financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor's report that 
includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, 
but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with CSAs 
will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements 
can arise from fraud or error and are generally considered material if, 
individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to 
influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these 
ﬁnancial statements.As part of an audit in accordance with CSAs, we exercise professional 
judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We 
also:(1)Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the ﬁnancial 
statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit 
procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that 
is sufﬁcient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The 
risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud 
is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve 
collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the 
override of internal control.8687(2)  Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit 
in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the 
circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on 
the effectiveness of internal control.(3)  Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the 
reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made 
by the management.(4)  Conclude on the appropriateness of the management's use of the 
going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence 
obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events 
or conditions that may cast significant doubt on United Overseas 
Bank (China) Limited's ability to continue as a going concern. If 
we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to 
draw attention in our auditor's report to the related disclosures inthe financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to 
modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence 
obtained up to the date of our auditor's report. However, future 
events or conditions may cause United Overseas Bank (China) Limited 
to cease to continue as a going concern.(5)  Evaluate the overall presentation including the disclosures, structure 
and content of the financial statements, and whether the financial 
statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a 
manner that achieves fair presentation.We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among 
other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and signiﬁcant 
audit ﬁndings, including any signiﬁcant deﬁciencies in internal control that 
we identify during our audit.Ernst & Young Hua Ming LLP, Shanghai BranchChinese Certiﬁed Public Accountant: Zhou, MingjunChinese Certiﬁed Public Accountant: Yu, LiangyuShanghai      China26 March 202188资产：现金及存放中央银行款项贵金属存放同业款项拆出资金交易性金融资产衍生金融资产买入返售金融资产发放贷款和垫款其他债权投资固定资产使用权资产无形资产递延所得税资产其他资产资产总计负债：同业及其他金融机构存放款项拆入资金交易性金融负债衍生金融负债卖出回购金融资产款吸收存款应付职工薪酬应交税费应付债券预计负债租赁负债其他负债负债合计所有者权益：实收资本资本公积其他综合收益盈余公积一般风险准备未分配利润所有者权益合计负债及所有者权益总计ASSETS:
Cash and deposit with the Central Bank
Precious metals
Due from banks and other ﬁnancial institutions
Placements with banks and other ﬁnancial institutions
Financial assets held-for-trading
Derivative ﬁnancial assets
Reverse repurchase ﬁnancial assets
Loans and advances to customers
Other debt instrument at fair value through other 
comprehensive income 
Fixed assets
Right-of-use assets
Intangible assets
Deferred tax assets
Other assets
TOTAL ASSETS
LIABILITIES:
Due to banks and other ﬁnancial institutions
Placements from banks and other ﬁnancial institutions
Financial liabilities held-for-trading 
Derivative ﬁnancial liabilities
Repurchase agreements 
Customer deposits
Payroll payables
Tax payables
Debt securities issued
Provisions
Lease liabilities
Other liabilities
TOTAL LIABILITIES
EQUITY:
Paid-up capital
Capital reserve
Other comprehensive income
Surplus reserves
General reserves
Retained earnings
TOTAL EQUITY
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY后附财务报表附注为本财务报表的组成部分
The accompanying notes to ﬁnancial statements form an integral part of these ﬁnancial statements.本财务报表由以下人士签署：
The ﬁnancial statements have been signed by:行长兼首席执行官、董事 : 符懋赞 
President and CEO, Director: Peter Foo Moo Tan首席财务官 : 朱轩
CFO: Brian Zhu Xuan资产负债表
Balance Sheet2020 年 12 月 31 日 31 December 2020
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)附注七
Notes 731-12-202031-12-201912
3
4
5
6
7
89
10
11
12
1314
15
16
5
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
2425
26
27
28
29
304,693,593,314
1,564,487,585
3,680,713,165
6,667,892,648
 1,525,241,844 
 11,567,136,341 
 2,273,636,714 
 36,186,036,127 
 11,029,276,74429,929,546 
 122,074,703 
 81,570,414 
 202,938,571 
 863,014,874 
80,487,542,5901,624,596,625
16,592,129,932
3,644,232,118
11,611,363,625
466,069,704
36,463,148,695
104,044,398
136,876,941
2,037,710,703
50,061,234
118,432,977
583,203,499
73,431,870,4515,500,000,000
 17,337,049 
 2,191,618 
 138,385,488 
 849,267,920 
 548,490,064 
7,055,672,139
80,487,542,5906,477,543,250
1,162,708,344
1,852,438,902
7,499,846,222
1,425,658,377
4,133,777,889
3,253,748,361
35,144,414,612
10,145,887,93632,665,882
72,213,755
102,639,668
114,246,411
438,498,808
71,856,288,417492,069,878
13,458,952,435
3,183,176,624
4,137,215,590
720,292,241
39,506,088,328
121,660,708
62,852,082
2,745,552,507
37,150,266
70,937,706
335,476,250
64,871,424,6155,500,000,000
14,562,830
42,888,850
127,512,353
816,675,492
483,224,277
6,984,863,802
71,856,288,41789附注七
Notes 7202020192,155,342,7752,372,005,854(1,163,722,814)(1,537,936,819)991,619,961193,384,515(50,505,904)142,878,611180,581,914(7,351,276)122,388,5183,434,635834,069,035239,478,508(67,569,057)171,909,45150,986,287168,226,620133,411,3741,961,460所有者权益变动表 
Statement of Changes in Equity2020 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2020
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)实收资本 
Paid-up
capital资本公积 
Capital
reserve其他综合收益
Other
comprehensive 
income盈余公积
Surplus
reserves一般风险准备
General
reserves未分配利润 
Retained
earnings合计 
Total本年年初金额Opening balance5,500,000,00014,562,83042,888,850127,512,353816,675,492483,224,2776,984,863,802本年增减变动金额Movements during the year（一）综合收益总额(i)  Total comprehensive income（二）所有者投入和减少资本(ii)  Injection of funds by anddistribution of funds to the 
investor1. 股份支付计入所有者权1. Share-based payment益的金额（三）利润分配(iii)  Proﬁt appropriation1. 提取盈余公积1. Appropriation to surplus reserves2. 提取一般风险准备2. Appropriation to generalreserves-------2,774,219(40,697,232)10,873,13532,592,42865,265,78770,808,337-(40,697,232)2,774,2192,774,219--------------108,731,35068,034,118--2,774,2192,774,21910,873,13532,592,428(43,465,563)10,873,135-(10,873,135)-32,592,428(32,592,428)---利润表
Income Statement2020 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2020
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)一、营业收入1. OPERATING INCOME利息收入利息支出利息净收入Interest incomeInterest expenseNet interest income手续费及佣金收入Fee and commission income手续费及佣金支出Fee and commission expense手续费及佣金净收入Net fee and commission income投资收益Investment income公允价值变动净损益Gain/(loss) from changes in fair value汇兑损益其他收益Foreign exchange gain/(loss)Other income营业收入合计TOTAL OPERATING INCOME二、营业支出税金及附加业务及管理费信用减值损失营业支出合计三、营业利润2. OPERATING EXPENSESTax and surchargesGeneral and administrative expensesCredit impairment lossesTOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES3. OPERATING PROFIT加：营业外收入Add: Non-operating income减：营业外支出Less: Non-operating expenses四、税前利润总额4. PROFIT BEFORE TAX减：所得税费用Less: Income tax expense五、净利润5. NET PROFIT六、其他综合收益的税后净额6. OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME, NET OF TAX其他债权投资公允价值变动 Fair value changes of other debt instrument at fair valuethrough other comprehensive income其他债权投资信用减值准备 Credit impairment losses of other debt investments七、综合收益总额7. TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME后附财务报表附注为本财务报表的组成部分
The accompanying notes to ﬁnancial statements form an integral part of these ﬁnancial statements.3131313232323334353637383927271,433,552,3631,360,564,227本年年末余额Closing balance5,500,000,00017,337,0492,191,618138,385,488849,267,920548,490,0647,055,672,139(14,702,798)(14,074,366)(1,037,781,074)(1,068,961,788)(267,602,034)(141,313,827)(1,320,085,906)(1,224,349,981)113,466,457136,214,246141,766(6,394,042)107,214,1811,517,169108,731,3501,108,361(593,915)136,728,692(12,364,745)124,363,947(40,777,351)22,550,51680,11956,61568,034,118146,971,0782019 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2019
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)实收资本 
Paid-up
capital资本公积 
Capital
reserve其他综合收益
Other
comprehensive 
income盈余公积
Surplus
reserves一般风险准备
General
reserves未分配利润 
Retained
earnings合计 
Total本年年初金额Opening balance5,500,000,00011,191,69720,281,719115,075,958826,398,940361,573,2776,834,521,591本年增减变动金额Movements during the year（一）综合收益总额(i)  Total comprehensive income（二）所有者投入和减少资本(ii)  Injection of funds by anddistribution of funds to the 
investor1. 股份支付计入所有者权1. Share-based payment益的金额（三）利润分配(iii)  Proﬁt appropriation1. 提取盈余公积1. Appropriation to surplus reserves2. 提取一般风险准备2. Appropriation to generalreserves-------3,371,13322,607,13112,436,395(9,723,448)121,651,000150,342,211-22,607,1313,371,1333,371,133--------------124,363,947146,971,078--3,371,1333,371,13312,436,395(9,723,448)(2,712,947)12,436,395-(12,436,395)-(9,723,448)9,723,448---本年年末余额Closing balance5,500,000,00014,562,83042,888,850127,512,353816,675,492483,224,2776,984,863,802后附财务报表附注为本财务报表的组成部分
The accompanying notes to ﬁnancial statements form an integral part of these ﬁnancial statements.9091现金流量表
Statement of Cash Flows2020 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2020
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)一、经营活动产生的现金流量1. CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES二、投资活动产生的现金流量2. CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES存放中央银行款项净减少额Net decrease in due from the Central Bank725,142,086收回投资收到的现金Cash received from maturity of investments20,970,000,00018,390,000,000附注七
Notes 720202019附注七
Notes 720202019存放同业款项净减少额Net decrease in due from banks and other ﬁnancial institutions40,114,677244,712,024取得投资收益收到的现金Cash received from investment income310,357,786374,785,155拆出资金净减少额Net decrease in placements with banks and other ﬁnancial 
institutions552,912,8956,251,367,730处置固定资产和其他长期资产收回
的现金Proceeds from disposal of ﬁxed assets and other long term 
assets734,19326,005吸收存款和同业及其他金融机构存
放款项净增加额Net increase in customer deposits and due to banks and other 
ﬁnancial institutions-2,158,568,038投资活动现金流入小计Sub-total of cash inﬂows from investing activities21,281,091,97918,764,811,160拆入资金净增加额Net increase in placements from banks and other ﬁnancial 
institutions3,408,030,734-收取的利息、手续费及佣金的现金 Cash received from interest, service fee and commission2,193,047,7472,463,442,433为交易目的而持有的金融资产净减
少额Net decrease in ﬁnancial assets at fair value through proﬁt or 
loss55,250,967516,201,154投资所支付的现金Cash paid for investment21,902,000,00021,670,000,000购建固定资产和其他长期资产支付
的现金Cash paid for purchase of ﬁxed assets and other long term 
assets15,664,63534,553,117投资活动现金流出小计Sub-total of cash outﬂows from investing activities21,917,664,63521,704,553,117投资活动产生的现金流量净额Net cash ﬂows from investing activities(636,572,656)(2,939,741,957)收到其他与经营活动有关的现金Cash received from other operating activities204,972,026371,490,999三、筹资活动产生的现金流量3. CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES经营活动现金流入小计Sub-total of cash inﬂows from operating activities7,179,471,13212,005,782,378发行债券收到的现金Cash received from debt securities issuance489,914,0002,854,361,510存放中央银行款项净增加额Net increase in due from the Central Bank-157,790,958筹资活动现金流入小计Sub-total of cash inﬂows from ﬁnancing activities489,914,0002,854,361,510吸收存款和同业及其他金融机构存
放款项净减少额Net decrease in customer deposits and due to banks and 
other ﬁnancial institutions拆入资金净减少额Net decrease in placements from banks and other ﬁnancial 
institutions1,861,816,239--2,374,844,510发放贷款和垫款净增加额Net increase in loans and advances to customers1,313,655,4842,363,699,186偿还债务支付的现金Cash repayments for debts分配股利、利润或偿付利息支付的
现金Cash payments for distribution of dividends or proﬁt and 
interest expenses1,220,000,0002,830,000,00097,300,00049,300,000支付其他与筹资活动有关的现金Cash paid to other ﬁnancing activities81,911,89438,737,081筹资活动现金流出小计Sub-total of cash outﬂows from ﬁnancing activities1,399,211,8942,918,037,081支付的利息、手续费及佣金的现金 Payments made for interest, service fee and commission1,181,054,8161,425,366,437筹资活动产生的现金流量净额Net cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities支付给职工及为职工支付的现金Cash paid to and on behalf of employees支付的各项税费Cash paid for all types of taxes支付其他与经营活动有关的现金Cash paid for other operating activities694,113,692699,749,712181,006,885231,748,862852,331,8441,396,548,578四、汇率变动对现金及现金等价物的影响五、现金及现金等价物净（减少）/增加额4. EFFECT OF EXCHANGE RATE CHANGES ON CASH ANDCASH EQUIVALENTS5. NET (DECREASE) /INCREASE IN CASH AND CASHEQUIVALENTS(909,297,894)(63,675,571)62,428,07962,653,79540(387,950,299)415,270,402经营活动现金流出小计Sub-total of cash outﬂows from operating activities6,083,978,9608,649,748,243加：年初现金及现金等价物余额Add: Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year10,968,087,27210,552,816,870经营活动产生的现金流量净额Net cash ﬂows from operating activities401,095,492,1723,356,034,135六、年末现金及现金等价物余额6. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF THE YEAR4110,580,136,97310,968,087,272后附财务报表附注为本财务报表的组成部分
The accompanying notes to ﬁnancial statements form an integral part of these ﬁnancial statements.后附财务报表附注为本财务报表的组成部分
The accompanying notes to ﬁnancial statements form an integral part of these ﬁnancial statements.9293财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2020 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2020
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)一、公司的基本情况1. Corporate Information二、编制基础2. Preparation basis of the ﬁnancial statements大华银行（中国）有限公司（以下简称“本公司”或“大华银行中国”）
是由大华银行有限公司（以下简称“大华银行”）在中华人民共和国
上海市成立的外商独资银行。United Overseas Bank (China) Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as The Bank 
or UOB China) is a wholly foreign-owned bank established in Shanghai, 
People's Republic of China (PRC), by United Overseas Bank (UOB).经中国银行保险监督管理委员会（以下简称“银保监会”）于 2007 年
4 月 5 日批准，大华银行按《中华人民共和国外资银行管理条例》（以
下简称“《管理条例》”）、《中华人民共和国外资银行管理条例实
施细则》（以下简称“《实施细则》”）的有关规定，在上海市筹建
由其单独出资的外商独资银行——大华银行（中国）有限公司，并
将其中国境内的大华银行上海分行、北京分行、深圳分行、广州分行、
厦门分行、成都分行、沈阳分行及上海静安支行（以下简称“原中国
区分行及支行”）改制为大华银行中国的分支机构。本 公 司 持 有 银 保 监 会 颁 发 的 金 融 许 可 证， 机 构 编 码 为：
B0308H231000001 号，持有上海市工商行政管理局核准颁发的企业法
人营业执照，统一社会信用代码为：913100006694147236。注册地址
为中国（上海）自由贸易试验区银城路 116 号、128 号大华银行大厦
三层、五层 501 室（实际四层）、十三层（实际十二层）、十五层
（实际十三层）、十六层（实际十四层）、十七层（实际十五层）、
十八层（实际十六层）、十九层（实际十七层）、二十层（实际十八层）。
注册资本为人民币 55 亿元。根据本公司营业执照的规定，本公司经营期限为不约定期限。本公
司主要从事经有关监管机构批准的外汇业务和人民币业务。2008 年
1 月 2 日为本公司与原中国区分行的业务切换日。截至 2020 年 12 月 31 日，除在上海设立的大华银行（中国）有限公
司总行外，本公司已在上海、北京、深圳、广州、厦门、成都、沈阳、
天津、杭州、重庆、苏州、昆明与中山设立了 13 家分行及 3 家支行。In accordance with the Regulation of the PRC on the Administration 
of Foreign-funded Banks (the Regulation), and the Detailed Rules on 
the Implementation of Regulation of the PRC on the Administration of 
Foreign-funded Banks (the Implementation), China Banking and Insurance 
Regulatory  Committee  (CBIRC)  granted  approval  to  UOB  on  5  April 
2007 to set up a wholly-owned subsidiary bank, UOB China, in Shanghai 
by converting its Shanghai Branch, Beijing Branch, Shenzhen Branch, 
Guangzhou Branch, Xiamen Branch, Chengdu Branch,  Shenyang Branch 
and Jing'An Sub-branch (collectively known as the Former PRC Branches).The Bank obtained the licence for conducting ﬁnancial transaction from 
the CBIRC (Institution Code: B0308H231000001), and obtained its business 
licence (Uniform Social Credit Code: 913100006694147236) from Shanghai 
Administration for Industry and Commerce. The registered address is 
Floor 3, Room 501 of Floor 5 (Actual Floor 4), Floor 13 (Actual Floor 12), 
Floor 15 (Actual Floor 13), Floor 16 (Actual Floor 14), Floor 17 (Actual Floor 
15), Floor 18 (Actual Floor 16), Floor 19 (Actual Floor 17) and Floor 20 (Actual 
Floor 18), No 116, 128 Yincheng Road, Shanghai Pilot Free Trade Zone. The 
registered capital of the Bank is RMB5.5 billion.The Bank obtained its business licence issued with an unlimited operating 
period.  The  main  businesses  of  the  Bank  are  Renminbi  and  foreign 
currency businesses as approved by relevant regulatory authorities. The 
date of business conversion from former PRC branches to UOB China was 
on 2 January 2008.As  of  31  December  2020,  besides  the  Head  Office  incorporated  in 
Shanghai, the Bank has set up 13 branches and 3 sub-branches respectively 
in Shanghai, Beijing, Shenzhen, Guangzhou, Xiamen, Chengdu, Shenyang, 
Tianjin, Hangzhou, Chongqing, Suzhou, Kunming and Zhongshan.94本财务报表按照中华人民共和国财政部（以下简称“财政部”）颁布
的《企业会计准则——基本准则》以及其后颁布及修订的具体会计
准则、应用指南、解释以及其他相关规定（统称“企业会计准则”）
编制。本财务报表以持续经营为基础列报。编制本财务报表时，除某些金融工具外，均以历史成本为计价原则。
资产如果发生减值，则按照相关规定计提相应的减值准备。三、遵循企业会计准则的声明本财务报表符合企业会计准则的要求，真实、完整地反映了本公司
2020 年 12 月 31 日的财务状况以及 2020 年度的经营成果和现金流量。四、重要会计政策和会计估计1. 会计期间本公司的会计年度采用公历年度，即每年自 1 月 1 日起至 12 月 31
日止。2. 记账本位币本公司的记账本位币和编制本财务报表所采用的货币均为人民币。
除有特别说明外，均以人民币元为单位列示。The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the 
Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises-Basic Standard and the 
specific standards, the implementation guidance, interpretations and 
other relevant provisions issued and revised subsequently by the Ministry 
of Finance of PRC (MOF) (collectively referred to as "Accounting Standards 
for Business Enterprises").The ﬁnancial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.The Bank's financial statements have been prepared on an accrual basis 
under the historical cost as the basis of measurement, except for some 
ﬁnancial instruments. If the assets are impaired, corresponding provisions 
should be recognised in accordance with relevant standards.3. Compliance with the Accounting Standards for BusinessEnterprisesThe ﬁnancial statements of the Bank have been prepared in accordance 
with the Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises, and present fairly 
and fully, the ﬁnancial position of the Bank as of 31 December 2020 and 
the ﬁnancial performance and the cash ﬂows for the year then ended.4. Signiﬁcant accounting policies and estimates(1)  Accounting periodThe accounting year of the Bank is from 1 January to 31 December of 
each calendar year.3. 现金及现金等价物(2) Functional currency现金，是指本公司的库存现金以及可以随时用于支付的存款；现
金等价物，是指本公司持有的期限短、流动性强、易于转换为已
知金额的现金、价值变动风险很小的投资。现金等价物包括原到期日不超过三个月的存放中央银行的非限定
性款项、存放同业及其他金融机构款项、拆放同业及其他金融机
构款项、买入返售款项，以及变现能力强、易于转换为可知数额
的现金、价值变动风险小，而且由购买日起三个月内到期的债券
投资。The Bank's functional currency is Renminbi (RMB). These financial 
statements are presented in RMB and all amounts are stated in RMB, 
unless otherwise stated.(3)  Cash and cash equivalentsCash comprises cash on hand and demand deposits; cash equivalents 
are short-term, highly liquid investments which are readily convertible 
to known amounts of cash, and which are subject to insigniﬁcant risk 
of changes in value.Cash equivalents comprise non-statutory deposits due from Central 
Bank, amounts due from banks and other ﬁnancial institutions, reverse 
repurchase agreements maturing within three months, and short-
term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible into known 
amounts of cash, and which are subject to an insignificant risk of 
changes in value, which have an original maturity date within three 
months.95本公司对于发生的外币交易，将外币金额折算为记账本位币金额。外币交易在初始确认时，采用交易发生日的即期汇率将外币金额
折算为记账本位币金额。于资产负债表日，对于外币货币性项目
采用资产负债表日即期汇率折算，由此产生的结算和货币性项目
折算差额计入当期损益。以历史成本计量的外币非货币性项目，
仍采用交易发生日的即期汇率折算，不改变其记账本位币金额。
以公允价值计量的外币非货币性项目，采用公允价值确定日的即
期汇率折算，由此产生的差额根据非货币性项目的性质计入当期
损益或其他综合收益。5. 固定资产固定资产仅在与其有关的经济利益很可能流入本公司，且其成本
能够可靠地计量时才予以确认。与固定资产有关的后续支出，符
合该确认条件的，计入固定资产成本，并终止确认被替换部分的
账面价值；否则，在发生时计入当期损益。固定资产按照成本进行初始计量。购置固定资产的成本包括购买
价款、相关税费、使固定资产达到预定可使用状态前所发生的可
直接归属于该项资产的其他支出。固定资产的折旧采用年限平均
法计提，各类固定资产的使用寿命、预计净残值率及年折旧率如下：Foreign currency transactions are translated using the exchange rates 
ruling  at  the  transaction  date.  Subsequent  to  initial  recognition, 
monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are 
translated at the applicable exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet 
date. Exchange differences arising from the settlement of monetary 
items or from translation of monetary items at balance sheet date 
are recognised in the proﬁt or loss. Non-monetary items measured at 
historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange 
rates ruling at the dates of the initial transactions; Non-monetary 
items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using 
the exchange rates when the fair value is determined, the exchange 
difference thus resulted is recognised in the profit or loss or other 
comprehensive income of the current period.(5)  Fixed assetsThe ﬁxed asse
ts can be recognised only when the economic beneﬁts related to ﬁxed 
assets are likely to ﬂow into the Bank, and the cost of ﬁxed assets can 
be measured reliably. Subsequent expenditure can be recognised as 
the cost of ﬁxed assets when the recognition criteria set above is met, 
and the replaced carrying amount shall be derecognised. Otherwise, 
such expenditure is to be charged to the proﬁt or loss in the period 
when it is incurred.Fixed assets are initially measured at cost. The cost of a purchased 
fixed asset comprises the purchase price, relevant taxes and any 
directly attributable expenditure for bringing the asset to working 
condition for its intended use. Depreciation is charged to profit or 
loss on a straight-line basis. And the respective estimated useful lives, 
estimated residual values and annual depreciation rates of ﬁxed assets 
are set by the Bank considering the nature and usage of ﬁxed assets.在建工程在达到预定可使用状态时转入固定资产、无形资产或其
他长期资产。7. 无形资产The cost of construction in progress is determined according to 
the actual expenditure for the construction, including all necessary 
expenditure  and  other  related  expenses  incurred  during  the 
construction period.The costs are transferred to fixed assets, intangible assets or other 
long term assets when the asset is ready for its intended use.无形资产仅在与其有关的经济利益很可能流入本公司，且其成本
能够可靠地计量时才予以确认，并以成本进行初始计量。(7) Intangible assets无形资产按照其能为本公司带来经济利益的期限确定使用寿命，
无法预见其为本公司带来经济利益期限的作为使用寿命不确定的
无形资产。本公司的无形资产为软件，其使用年限为 2 至 10 年。使用寿命有限的无形资产，在其使用寿命内采用直线法摊销。本
公司至少于每年年度终了，对使用寿命有限的无形资产的使用寿
命及摊销方法进行复核，必要时进行调整。8. 长期待摊费用长期待摊费用采用直线法摊销长期待摊费用根据合同或协议与受益期限孰短原则确定摊销期限，
并平均摊销。如果长期摊销的费用项目不能使以后会计期间受益的，将尚未摊
销的项目的摊余价值全部转入当期损益。The intangible assets can be recognised only when the economic 
beneﬁts related to intangible assets are likely to ﬂow into the Bank, 
and the cost of intangible assets can be measured reliably. While the 
intangible assets obtained in a business combination under common 
control should be measured at fair value if the cost of intangible assets 
can be measured reliably.The useful life of intangible assets is determined according to the 
economic useful lives; those intangible assets with unforeseeable 
economic lives can be classiﬁed as intangible assets with inﬁnite useful 
lives.The Bank's intangible assets comprise computer software with 2-10 
years' useful lives.For  the  intangible  assets  with  finite  useful  lives,  amortisation  is 
charged to profit or loss on a straight line basis. The useful life and 
amortisation method for intangible assets with ﬁnite useful lives are 
reviewed at each end of the year, with proper adjustments made by 
the Bank when necessary.(8) Long-term deferred expensesLong-term  deferred  expenses  are  amortised  by  the  straight  line 
method.Long-term deferred expenses are amortised on a straight-line basis 
over the shorter of lease period and useful life.The carrying amount that has not been amortised is charged to proﬁt 
or loss if the expenditure does not bring benefits to subsequent 
accounting periods.财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2020 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2020
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)4. 外币折算(4)  Foreign currency transactions6. 在建工程(6) Construction in progressTransactions in foreign currencies are translated into the reporting 
currency accordingly.在建工程成本按实际工程支出确定，包括在建期间发生的各项必
要工程支出以及其他相关费用等。房屋及建筑物运输设备办公设备电脑设备Properties and buildings
Motor vehicles 
Ofﬁce equipment
Computers使用寿命
Estimated useful lives
50 年
5 年
5 年
3 年预计净残值率
Estimated residual value
-
-
-
-年折旧率
Annual depreciation rate
2%
20%
20%
33%本公司至少于每年年度终了，对固定资产的使用寿命、预计净残
值和折旧方法进行复核，必要时进行调整。Residual values, useful lives and depreciation methods are reviewed 
and adjusted if appropriate, at each end of the year.9697财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2020 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2020
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)9. 金融工具(9) Financial instruments金融资产分类和计量Classiﬁcation and measurement of ﬁnancial assets金融工具，是指形成一个企业的金融资产，并形成其他单位的金
融负债或权益工具的合同。A ﬁnancial instrument is any contract that gives rise to a ﬁnancial asset 
of one entity and a ﬁnancial liability or equity instrument of another 
entity.金融工具的确认和终止确认本公司于成为金融工具合同的一方时确认一项金融资产或金融负
债。满足下列条件的，终止确认金融资产 ( 或金融资产的一部分，或一
组类似金融资产的一部分 )，即从其账户和资产负债表内予以转销：（1）收取金融资产现金流量的权利届满；（2）转移了收取金融资产现金流量的权利，或在“过手协议”下承
担了及时将收取的现金流量全额支付给第三方的义务；并且
(a) 实质上转让了金融资产所有权上几乎所有的风险和报酬，
或 (b) 虽然实质上既没有转移也没有保留金融资产所有权上
几乎所有的风险和报酬，但放弃了对该金融资产的控制。如果金融负债的责任已履行、撤销或届满，则对金融负债进行终
止确认。如果现有金融负债被同一债权人以实质上几乎完全不同
条款的另一金融负债所取代，或现有负债的条款几乎全部被实质
性修改，则此类替换或修改作为终止确认原负债和确认新负债处
理，差额计入当期损益。以常规方式买卖金融资产，按交易日会计进行确认和终止确认。
常规方式买卖金融资产，是指按照合同条款的约定，在法规或通
行惯例规定的期限内收取或交付金融资产。交易日，是指本公司
承诺买入或卖出金融资产的日期。Recognition and derecognition of ﬁnancial instrumentA financial asset or a financial liability is recognised when the Bank 
becomes  a  party  to  the  contractual  provisions  of  the  financial 
instrument.A ﬁnancial asset (or, where applicable, a part of a ﬁnancial asset or part 
of a group of similar financial assets) is primarily derecognised (i.e., 
removed from the Bank's balance sheet) when:(i)   The  rights  to  receive  cash  flows  from  the  financial  asset  haveexpired; or(ii)  The Bank has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the 
financial asset, or has assumed an obligation to pay the received 
cash flows in full without material delay to a third party under 
a  "pass-through"  arrangement;  and  either  (a)  has  transferred 
substantially all the risks and rewards of the ﬁnancial asset, or (b) 
has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and 
rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the financial 
asset.A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the 
liability is discharged, cancelled, or expires.  When an existing ﬁnancial 
liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially 
different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially 
modiﬁed, such an exchange or modiﬁcation is treated as a derecognition 
of the original liability and a recognition of a new liability, and the 
difference between the respective carrying amounts is recognised in 
proﬁt or loss.A regular way purchases or sales of ﬁnancial assets are recognised and 
derecognised, as applicable, using trade date accounting. A regular 
way purchase or sale of ﬁnancial assets represents a purchase or sale 
of a financial asset under a contract whose terms require delivery of 
the asset within the time frame established generally by regulation or 
convention in the marketplace concerned. The trade date is the date 
that the Bank committed to purchase or sell a ﬁnancial asset.本公司的金融资产于初始确认时根据本公司企业管理金融资产的
业务模式和金融资产的合同现金流量特征分类为：以公允价值计
量且其变动计入当期损益的金融资产、以摊余成本计量的金融资
产、以公允价值计量且其变动计入其他综合收益的金融资产。当
且仅当本公司改变管理金融资产的业务模式时，才对所有受影响
的相关金融资产进行重分类。对于以公允价值计量且其变动计入当期损益的金融资产，相关交
易费用直接计入当期损益，其他类别的金融资产相关交易费用计
入其初始确认金额。金融资产的后续计量取决于其分类：以摊余成本计量的债务工具投资金融资产同时符合下列条件的，分类为以摊余成本计量的金融资
产：管理该金融资产的业务模式是以收取合同现金流量为目标；
该金融资产的合同条款规定，在特定日期产生的现金流量仅为对
本金和以未偿付本金金额为基础的利息的支付。此类金融资产采
用实际利率法确认利息收入，其终止确认、修改或减值产生的利
得或损失，均计入当期损益。以公允价值计量且其变动计入其他综合收益的债务工具投资金融资产同时符合下列条件的，分类为以公允价值计量且其变动
计入其他综合收益的金融资产：本公司管理该金融资产的业务模
式是既以收取合同现金流量为目标又以出售金融资产为目标；该
金融资产的合同条款规定，在特定日期产生的现金流量仅为对本
金和以未偿付本金金额为基础的利息的支付。此类金融资产采用
实际利率法确认利息收入。除利息收入、减值损失及汇兑差额确
认为当期损益外，其余公允价值变动计入其他综合收益。当金融
资产终止确认时，之前计入其他综合收益的累计利得或损失从其
他综合收益转出，计入当期损益。Financial assets of the Bank are initially classified into three categories: 
financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, financial assets 
at amortised cost, and financial assets at fair value through other 
comprehensive income based on the Bank's business model for managing 
the ﬁnancial assets and their contractual cash ﬂow characteristics. The Bank 
reclassiﬁed the relating ﬁnancial assests if and only if the Bank changes the 
business model for managing the ﬁnancial assets.Underlying fee of ﬁnancial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss are 
directly recognised in proﬁt or loss, while those of other classiﬁcations 
are attributed to the acquisition of ﬁnancial assets.Subsequent  measurement  of  financial  assets  are  based  on  their 
classiﬁcation:Debt instrument investment at amortised costFinancial assets are classified into financial assets at amortised cost 
when both of the following conditions are satisﬁed: The business model 
is to collect contractual cash flows; the cash flows on specific date 
are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount 
outstanding according to the agreement of the financial assets. Their 
interest income is recognised using the effective interest rate method. 
Gains or losses arising from derecognition, modiﬁcation or impairment 
are recognised in proﬁt or loss.Debt instrument at fair value through other comprehensive incomeFinancial assets are classiﬁed into Financial assets at fair value through 
other comprehensive income when both of the following conditions 
are satisfied: The business model is to collect both the contractual 
cash flows and cash flows arising from the sale of assets; the cash 
ﬂows on speciﬁc date are solely payments of principal and interest on 
the principal amount outstanding according to the agreement of the 
ﬁnancial assets. Their interest income is recognised using the effective 
interest rate method. A gain or loss arising from a change in the fair 
value is recognised as other comprehensive income, except for interest 
income, credit impairment losses and foreign exchange gains or losses, 
which are recognised in profit or loss. The gain or loss recognised in 
other comprehensive income will be reversed and recognised in proﬁt 
or loss when the ﬁnancial assets are derecognised.9899财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2020 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2020
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)以公允价值计量且其变动计入当期损益的金融资产Financial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss金融工具减值Impairment of ﬁnancial instruments上述以摊余成本计量的金融资产和以公允价值计量且其变动计入
其他综合收益的金融资产之外的金融资产，分类为以公允价值计
量且其变动计入当期损益的金融资产。对于此类金融资产，采用
公允价值进行后续计量，所有公允价值变动计入当期损益。金融负债分类和计量本公司的金融负债于初始确认时分类为：以公允价值计量且其变
动计入当期损益的金融负债、其他金融负债。对于以公允价值计
量且其变动计入当期损益的金融负债，相关交易费用直接计入当
期损益，其他金融负债的相关交易费用计入其初始确认金额。金融负债的后续计量取决于其分类：以公允价值计量且其变动计入当期损益的金融负债以公允价值计量且其变动计入当期损益的金融负债，包括交易性
金融负债 ( 含属于金融负债的衍生工具 ) 和初始确认时指定为以公
允价值计量且其变动计入当期损益的金融负债。交易性金融负债（含属于金融负债的衍生工具），按照公允价值
进行后续计量，除与套期会计有关外，所有公允价值变动均计入
当期损益。对于指定为以公允价值计量且其变动计入当期损益的
金融负债，按照公允价值进行后续计量，除由本公司自身信用风
险变动引起的公允价值变动计入其他综合收益之外，其他公允价
值变动计入当期损益；如果由本公司自身信用风险变动引起的公
允价值变动计入其他综合收益会造成或扩大损益中的会计错配，
本公司将所有公允价值变动（包括自身信用风险变动的影响金额）
计入当期损益。其他金融负债对于此类金融负债，采用实际利率法，按照摊余成本进行后续计量。Other than the ﬁnancial assets at amortised cost and the ﬁnancial assets 
at fair value through other comprehensive income mentioned above, 
ﬁnancial assets are classiﬁed into ﬁnancial assets at fair value through 
profit or loss. Such financial assets are subsequently measured at fair 
value and the gain or loss arising from a change in the fair value will be 
recognised in proﬁt or loss.Classiﬁcation and measurement of ﬁnancial liabilitiesFinancial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities at fair 
value through profit or loss, or other financial liabilities. Underlying 
fee of ﬁnancial liabilities at fair value through proﬁt or loss are directly 
recognised in proﬁt or loss, while those of other ﬁnancial liabilities are 
attributed to the acquisition of ﬁnancial liabilities.Subsequent  measurement  of  financial  liabilities  is  based  on  their 
classiﬁcation:Financial liabilities at fair value through proﬁt or lossFinancial liabilities at fair value through proﬁt or loss include ﬁnancial 
liabilities held for trading (including derivatives that are liabilities) and 
financial liabilities designated upon initial recognition as at fair value 
through proﬁt or loss.Financial liabilities held for trading (including derivative instruments 
attributable to financial liabilities) are subsequently measured at fair 
value.  All changes in fair value of such ﬁnancial liabilities are recognised 
in  profit  or  loss  except  for  the  derivatives  designated  as  hedging 
instruments in an effective hedge. Financial liabilities designated at fair 
value through profit or loss are subsequently measured at fair value 
and gains or losses are recognised in proﬁt or loss, except for the gains 
or losses arising from the Bank's own credit risk which are presented in 
other comprehensive income. If gains or losses arising from the Bank's 
own credit risk which are presented in other comprehensive income will 
lead to or expand accounting mismatch in proﬁt or loss, the Bank will 
include all the changes in fair value (including the amount affected by 
changes in the Bank's own credit risk) of such ﬁnancial liabilities in proﬁt 
or loss.Other ﬁnancial liabilitiesSuch ﬁnancial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost 
using the effective interest rate method.100本公司以预期信用损失为基础，对以摊余成本计量的金融资产、
以公允价值计量且其变动计入其他综合收益的债务工具投资、贷
款承诺及财务担保合同进行减值处理并确认损失准备。对于不含重大融资成分的应收款项以及合同资产，本公司运用简
化计量方法，按照相当于整个存续期内的预期信用损失金额计量
损失准备。除上述采用简化计量方法以外的金融资产、贷款承诺及财务担保
合同，本公司在每个资产负债表日评估其信用风险自初始确认后
是否已经显著增加，如果信用风险自初始确认后未显著增加，处
于第一阶段，本公司按照相当于未来 12 个月内预期信用损失的金
额计量损失准备，并按照账面余额和实际利率计算利息收入；如
果信用风险自初始确认后已显著增加但尚未发生信用减值的，处
于第二阶段，本公司按照相当于整个存续期内预期信用损失的金
额计量损失准备，并按照账面余额和实际利率计算利息收入；如
果初始确认后发生信用减值的，处于第三阶段，本公司按照相当
于整个存续期内预期信用损失的金额计量损失准备，并按照摊余
成本和实际利率计算利息收入。本公司在每个资产负债表日评估相关金融工具的信用风险自初始
确认后是否已显著增加。本公司以单项金融工具或者具有相似信
用风险特征的金融工具组合为基础，通过比较金融工具在资产负
债表日发生违约的风险与在初始确认日发生违约的风险，以确定
金融工具预计存续期内发生违约风险的变化情况。对于资产负债
表日只具有较低信用风险的金融工具，本公司假设其信用风险自
初始确认后未显著增加。关于本公司对预期信用损失计量的假设等披露参见附注十一、1。当对金融资产预期未来现金流量具有不利影响的一项或多项事件
发生时，该金融资产成为已发生信用减值的金融资产。当本公司不再合理预期能够全部或部分收回金融资产合同现金流
量时，本公司直接减记该金融资产的账面余额。The  Bank  recognises  a  loss  for  impairment  of  financial  assets  at 
amortised  cost,  debt  instrument  measured  at  fair  through  other 
comprehensive income, loan commitments and financial guarantee 
contracts based on their expected credit loss.For  receivable  and  contract  assets  without  significant  financing 
components, the Bank uses the simplified approach to calculate the 
credit impairment loss, based on lifetime expected credit loss.Other  than  the  financial  assets,  loan  commitments  and  financial 
guarantee contracts using simplified approach, the Bank evaluates 
whether the credit risk has significantly increases since the initial 
recognition at each financial reporting date. When credit risk hasn't 
increased  significantly  since  the  initial  recognition,  the  financial 
instruments are included in Stage I. the Bank calculate impairment 
allowance  at  an  amount  equivalent  to  the  ECL  of  the  financial 
instruments for the next 12 months, recognise the interest income by 
using the carrying amount and effective interest rate. When credit risk 
has increased significantly since the initial recognition, but have no 
objective evidence of impairment, the ﬁnancial instruments are included 
in Stage II, the Bank calculate the impairment allowance at an amount 
equivalent to the ECL over the lifetime of the financial instruments, 
and  recognise  the  interest  income  by  using  carrying  amount  and 
effective interest rate. If the ﬁnancial assets have objective evidence of 
impairment, the ﬁnancial instruments are included in Stage III, the Bank 
calculates the impairment allowance at an amount equivalent to the 
ECL over the lifetime of the ﬁnancial instruments, and recognises the 
interest income by using amortised cost and effective interest rate.At each balance sheet date, the Bank assesses whether the credit risk 
on the relevant financial instruments has increased significantly since 
initial recognition.  The Bank compares the risk of a default occurring 
of a single financial instrument or a group of financial instruments 
with similar credit risk characteristics as at the balance sheet date with 
the risk of a default as at the date of initial recognition, to determine 
changes in the risk of a default occurring of the ﬁnancial instrument in 
the expected lifetime. If the credit risk of ﬁnancial instruments is low 
at the balance sheet date, the Bank assumes that the credit risk has not 
increased signiﬁcantly since initial recognition.The disclosure related to the criterion for whether the credit risk has  increased 
signiﬁcantly, the deﬁnition of the impaired ﬁnancial assets and the hypothesis 
of the measurement of expected credit loss refers to Note 11.1.When there are one or more events that have adverse effects on the expected 
future cash ﬂows of a ﬁnancial asset, the ﬁnancial asset is credit-impaired.When the Bank no longer reasonably expects to collect part or all of the 
contractual cash flows, the Bank writes down the carrying amount of the 
ﬁnancial assets.101财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2020 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2020
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)金融工具抵销Offsetting of ﬁnancial instruments10. 买入返售和卖出回购交易(10) Repurchase and reverse repurchase transactions同时满足下列条件的，金融资产和金融负债以相互抵销后的净额
在资产负债表内列示：具有抵销已确认金额的法定权利，且该种
法定权利是当前可执行的；计划以净额结算，或同时变现该金融
资产和清偿该金融负债。Financial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities are offset and the net amount 
presented in the balance sheet when and only when the Bank currently 
has a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and 
intends either to settle on a net basis, or to realize the asset and settle 
the liability simultaneously.财务担保合同Financial guarantee contract财务担保合同，是指特定债务人到期不能按照债务工具条款偿付
债务时，发行方向蒙受损失的合同持有人赔付特定金额的合同。
财务担保合同在初始确认时按照公允价值计量，财务担保合同在
初始确认后按照资产负债表日确定的预期信用损失准备金额和初
始确认金额扣除按照收入确认原则确定的累计摊销额后的余额两
者孰高者进行后续计量。衍生金融工具本公司使用衍生金融工具，衍生金融工具初始以衍生交易合同签
订当日的公允价值进行计量，并以其公允价值进行后续计量。公
允价值为正数的衍生金融工具确认为一项资产，公允价值为负数
的确认为一项负债。除与套期会计有关外，衍生工具公允价值变动产生的利得或损失
直接计入当期损益。金融资产转移Financial guarantee contracts are those contracts that require issuer 
to  make  specified  payments  to  reimburse  the  holder  for  a  loss  it 
incurs because a speciﬁed debtor fails to make payment when due in 
accordance with the original or modiﬁed terms of a debt instrument. 
Financial guarantee contracts are measured, on initial recognition, 
at fair value. After initial recognition, financial guarantee contracts 
are subsequently measured at the higher of, (i) the expected credit 
impairment loss determined on financial reporting date and (ii) the 
amount initially recognised less, when appropriate, the cumulative 
amount of income recognised in accordance with the revenue principle.Derivative ﬁnancial instrumentsThe Bank uses derivative ﬁnancial instruments. Such derivative ﬁnancial 
instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which 
a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently measured at 
fair value. Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive 
and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.本公司已将金融资产所有权上几乎所有的风险和报酬转移给转入
方的，终止确认该金融资产；保留了金融资产所有权上几乎所有
的风险和报酬的，不终止确认该金融资产。Any proﬁt or loss arising from changes in fair value of derivatives are 
taken directly in proﬁt or loss, except for those related to the hedge 
accounting.本公司既没有转移也没有保留金融资产所有权上几乎所有的风险
和报酬的，分别下列情况处理：放弃了对该金融资产控制的，终
止确认该金融资产并确认产生的资产和负债；未放弃对该金融资
产控制的，按照其继续涉入所转移金融资产的程度确认有关金融
资产，并相应确认有关负债。通过对所转移金融资产提供财务担保方式继续涉入的，按照金融
资产的账面价值和财务担保金额两者之中的较低者，确认继续涉
入形成的资产。财务担保金额，是指所收到的对价中，将被要求
偿还的最高金额。Transfer of ﬁnancial assetsA  financial  asset  is  derecognised  when  the  Bank  has  transferred 
substantially all the risks and rewards of the financial asset to the 
transferee. A ﬁnancial asset is not derecognised when the Bank retains 
substantially all the risks and rewards of the ﬁnancial asset.When the Bank has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the 
risks and rewards of the ﬁnancial asset, it either (i) derecognises the ﬁnancial 
asset and recognises the assets and liabilities created in the transfer when 
it has not retained control of the asset; or (ii) continues to recognise the 
transferred asset to the extent of the Bank's continuing involvement, in 
which case, the Bank also recognises an associated liability.Continuing involvement that takes the form of a guarantee over the 
transferred financial asset is measured at the lower of the original 
carrying amount of the ﬁnancial asset and the guarantee amount. The 
guarantee amount is the maximum amount of consideration that the 
Bank could be required to repay.按回购合约出售的有价证券和票据（“卖出回购”）不予终止确认，
视具体情况在相应资产项目中列示，对交易对手的债务在“卖出
回购金融资产款”中列示。按返售合约买入的有价证券和票据（“买
入返售”）不予以确认，对交易对手的债权在“买入返售金融资产”
中列示。出售和回购及买入和返售间的价差采用实际利率法在合约有效期
内计入利润表中的利息支出或利息收入。11.  贵金属贵金属主要包括黄金和白银。为交易目的而获得的贵金属按照取
得时的公允价值进行初始确认，并以公允价值进行后续计量，相
关变动计入当期损益。12. 资产减值Securities and bills sold subject to repurchase agreements ("Repos") 
continue to be recognised, and are recorded as ﬁnancial investments. 
The corresponding obligation is included in "Repurchase agreements". 
Securities and bills purchased under agreements to re-sell ("Reverse 
repos") are not recognised. The receivables are recorded as "Reverse 
repurchase ﬁnancial assets", as appropriate.The difference between purchase and sale price is recognised as 
interest expense or interest income in the proﬁt or loss over the life 
of the agreements using the effective interest method.(11) Precious metalsPrecious metals comprise gold and silver. Precious metals acquired by 
the Bank for trading purposes are initially measured at fair value and 
subsequent changes in fair value are recorded in the proﬁt or loss.本公司对除金融资产和递延所得税资产外的资产减值，按以下方
法确定：(12) Impairment of assets本公司于资产负债表日判断资产是否存在可能发生减值的迹象，
存在减值迹象的，本公司将估计其可收回金额，进行减值测试。
对使用寿命不确定的无形资产，无论是否存在减值迹象，至少于
每年末进行减值测试。对于尚未达到可使用状态的无形资产，也
每年进行减值测试。可收回金额根据资产的公允价值减去处置费用后的净额与资产预
计未来现金流量的现值两者之间较高者确定。本公司以单项资产
为基础估计其可收回金额。当资产的可收回金额低于其账面价值时，本公司将其账面价值减
记至可收回金额，减记的金额计入当期损益，同时计提相应的资
产减值准备。上述资产减值损失一经确认，在以后会计期间不再转回。The Bank assesses impairment of assets as follows, except for ﬁnancial 
assets and deferred tax assets:The Bank assesses whether there is an indication that an asset is 
impaired at each ﬁnancial reporting date. If any such indication exists, 
the Bank makes an estimate of the asset's recoverable amount and 
carries out impairment test. For those assets with infinite useful 
lives, regardless of whether the impairment indications exist, the 
impairment test is made at least annually. For intangible assets that 
have not yet reached their intended use status are also conducted 
annual impairment test.An asset's recoverable amount is the higher of its fair value less costs 
to sell and the present value of estimated future discounted cash 
ﬂows, which is determined on an individual basis.If the recoverable amount of the asset is less than its carrying value, 
an impairment loss is recognised immediately in proﬁt or loss and the 
carrying value of the asset reduced by the amount of the loss.Once an impairment loss is recognised, it shall not be reversed in the 
subsequent period.102103财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2020 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2020
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)13. 预计负债(13)  Provisions除了非同一控制下企业合并中的或有对价及承担的或有负债之
外，当与或有事项相关的义务同时符合以下条件，本公司将其确
认为预计负债：(i)  该义务是本公司承担的现时义务；
(ii)  该义务的履行很可能导致经济利益流出本公司；
(iii)  该义务的金额能够可靠地计量。预计负债按照履行相关现时义务所需支出的最佳估计数进行初始
计量，并综合考虑与或有事项有关的风险、不确定性和货币时间
价值等因素。每个资产负债表日对预计负债的账面价值进行复核。
有确凿证据表明该账面价值不能反映当前最佳估计数的，按照当
前最佳估计数对该账面价值进行调整。14. 收入及支出确认原则和方法利息收入和利息支出本公司利润表中的“利息收入”和“利息支出”，为按实际利率法确
认的以摊余成本计量及以公允价值计量且其变动计入其他综合收
益的金融资产和以摊余成本计量的金融负债产生的利息收入与支
出。实际利率法，是指计算金融资产或金融负债的摊余成本以及将各
期利息收入或利息支出分摊计入各会计期间的方法。实际利率，
是指将金融资产或金融负债在预计存续期间的估计未来现金流
量，折现为该金融资产或金融负债当前账面价值所使用的利率。
在确定实际利率时，本公司在考虑金融资产或金融负债所有合同
条款的基础上估计未来现金流量，但不考虑预期信用损失。本公
司支付或收取的、属于实际利率组成部分的各项收费、交易费用
及溢价或折价等，在确定实际利率时予以考虑。对于购入或源生的已发生信用减值的金融资产，本公司自初始确
认起，按照该金融资产的摊余成本和经信用调整的实际利率计算
确定其利息收入。经信用调整的实际利率，是指将购入或源生的
已发生信用减值的金融资产在预计存续期的估计未来现金流量，
折现为该金融资产摊余成本的利率。An obligation related to a contingency is recognised as provision 
when  all  of  the  following  conditions  are  satisfied  (except  for 
contingent liability recognised in a business combination not under 
common control):the obligation is a present obligation of the Bank;
it is probable that an outﬂow of economic beneﬁts will be  
required to settle the obligation; and(i) 
(ii) 
 
(iii)  the amount of the obligation can be measured reliably.The provision is initially measured at the best estimate of the expenditure 
required to settle the related present obligation. Factors pertaining to a 
contingency such as the risks, uncertainties and time value of money are 
taken into account as a whole in reaching the best estimate. The Bank 
reviews the carrying amount of a provision at the balance sheet date. 
The carrying amount of a provision will be adjusted when there is clear 
evidence that the amount does not reﬂect the current best estimate.(14) Recognition of income and expenseInterest income and expense"Interest income" and "interest expense" item in the income statement 
of the Bank are the interest income and expense calculated by using 
the effective interest method on ﬁnancial assets at amortised cost, 
ﬁnancial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income and 
ﬁnancial liabilities at amortised cost.The  effective  interest  method  is  used  in  the  calculation  of  the 
amortised cost of a financial asset or a financial liability and in the 
allocation and recognition of the interest income or interest expense 
in proﬁt or loss over the relevant period. The effective interest rate 
is that exactly discounts estimated future cash flows through the 
expected life of a financial asset or financial liability to the gross 
carrying  amount  of  a  financial  asset  or  the  amortised  cost  of  a 
financial liability. When calculating the effective interest rate, the 
Bank estimates the expected cash ﬂows by considering all contractual 
terms of the financial instrument but does not consider expected 
credit losses. The calculation includes all amounts paid or received 
by the Bank that are an integral part of the effective interest rate, 
transaction costs and all other premiums or discounts.For those purchased or originated credit-impaired ﬁnancial assets, the 
Bank calculates the interest income by applying the credit-adjusted 
effective interest rate to the amortised cost of the financial asset 
from initial recognition. The credit-adjusted effective interest rate is 
that exactly discounts the estimated future cash flows through the 
expected life of the ﬁnancial asset to the amortised cost of a ﬁnancial 
asset that is a purchased or originated credit-impaired ﬁnancial asset.对于购入或源生的未发生信用减值、但在后续期间成为已发生信
用减值的金融资产，本公司在后续期间，按照该金融资产的摊余
成本和实际利率计算确定其利息收入。手续费及佣金收入本公司通过向客户提供各类服务收取手续费及佣金。其中，通过
在一定期间内提供服务收取的手续费及佣金在相应期间内按照履
约进度确认，其他手续费及佣金于相关交易完成时确认。15. 租赁租赁的识别For those ﬁnancial assets that are not purchased or originated credit-
impaired financial assets but subsequently have  become credit-
impaired financial assets, the Bank calculates the interest income 
by applying the effective interest rate to the amortised cost of the 
ﬁnancial asset in subsequent reporting periods.Fee and commission incomeThe Bank earns fee and commission income from a diverse range 
of  services  it  provides  to  its  customers.  For  those  services  that 
are provided over a period of time, fee and commission income 
is  accrued  in  accordance  with  the  terms  and  conditions  of  the 
service agreement. For other services, fee and commission income is 
recognised when the transactions are completed.在合同开始日，本公司评估合同是否为租赁或者包含租赁，如果
合同中一方让渡了在一定期间内控制一项或多项已识别资产使用
的权利以换取对价，则该合同为租赁或者包含租赁。为确定合同
是否让渡了在一定期间内控制已识别资产使用的权利，本公司评
估合同中的客户是否有权获得在使用期间内因使用已识别资产所
产生的几乎全部经济利益，并有权在该使用期间主导已识别资产
的使用。单独租赁的识别合同中同时包含多项单独租赁的，本公司将合同予以分拆，并分
别各项单独租赁进行会计处理。同时符合下列条件的，使用已识
别资产的权利构成合同中的一项单独租赁：(15) LeasesIdentiﬁcation of leasesAt inception of a contract, the Bank assesses whether the contract is, 
or contains, a lease. A contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract 
conveys the right to control the use of one or more identiﬁed assets 
for a period of time in exchange for consideration. To assess whether 
a contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified 
asset for a period of time, the Bank assesses whether, throughout 
the period of use, the customer has both of the right to obtain 
substantially all of the economic beneﬁts from use of the identiﬁed 
asset and the right to direct the use of the identiﬁed asset.（1）承租人可从单独使用该资产或将其与易于获得的其他资源一Identiﬁcation of separate lease components起使用中获利；（2）该资产与合同中的其他资产不存在高度依赖或高度关联关系。租赁和非租赁部分的分拆合同中同时包含租赁和非租赁部分的，本公司作为承租人时，对
于运输工具类租赁资产不进行分拆，将各租赁部分及与其相关的
非租赁部分分别合并为租赁进行处理，除以上类别租赁资产外，
本公司将租赁和非租赁部分分拆后进行会计处理。For a contract that contains multiple separate lease components, 
the Bank separates the components of the contract and accounts for 
each separate lease component. The right to use an identiﬁed asset is 
a separate lease component if both:(1)   the lessee can beneﬁt from use of the underlying asset either on 
its own or together with other resources that are readily available 
to the lessee; and(2)  the underlying asset is neither highly dependent on, nor highlyinterrelated with, the other underlying assets in the contract.Separating lease components and non-lease componentsThe Bank does not separate lease vehicles as a lessee and instead 
accounts for each lease component and any associated non-lease 
components  as  a  single  lease  component,  except  that  the  Bank 
accounts  for  the  lease  components  and  non-lease  components 
separately in addition to the underlying assets above.104105财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2020 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2020
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)租赁期的评估Assessment of the lease term租赁负债Lease liabilities租赁期是本公司有权使用租赁资产且不可撤销的期间。本公司有
续租选择权，即有权选择续租该资产，且合理确定将行使该选择
权的，租赁期还包含续租选择权涵盖的期间。本公司有终止租赁
选择权，即有权选择终止租赁该资产，但合理确定将不会行使该
选择权的，租赁期包含终止租赁选择权涵盖的期间。发生本公司
可控范围内的重大事件或变化，且影响本公司是否合理确定将行
使相应选择权的，本公司对其是否合理确定将行使续租选择权、
购买选择权或不行使终止租赁选择权进行重新评估。本公司作为承租人使用权资产本公司使用权资产类别主要包括房屋及建筑物、运输工具。在租赁期开始日，本公司将其可在租赁期内使用租赁资产的权利
确认为使用权资产，包括：（1）租赁负债的初始计量金额；（2）
在租赁期开始日或之前支付的租赁付款额，存在租赁激励的，扣
除已享受的租赁激励相关金额；（3）承租人发生的初始直接费用；
（4）承租人为拆卸及移除租赁资产、复原租赁资产所在场地或
将租赁资产恢复至租赁条款约定状态预计将发生的成本。本公司
后续采用年限平均法对使用权资产计提折旧。能够合理确定租赁
期届满时取得租赁资产所有权的，本公司在租赁资产剩余使用寿
命内计提折旧。无法合理确定租赁期届满时能够取得租赁资产所
有权的，本公司在租赁期与租赁资产剩余使用寿命两者孰短的期
间内计提折旧。本公司按照变动后的租赁付款额的现值重新计量租赁负债，并相
应调整使用权资产的账面价值时，如使用权资产账面价值已调减
至零，但租赁负债仍需进一步调减的，本公司将剩余金额计入当
期损益。The lease term is the non-cancellable period of a lease for which 
the Bank has the right to use an underlying asset.  If the Bank has an 
option to extend the lease, that is, the Bank has the right to extend 
the lease, and is reasonably certain to exercise that option, the lease 
term also includes periods covered by an option to extend the lease. 
If the Bank has an option to terminate the lease, that is, the Bank 
has the right to terminate the lease, but is reasonably certain not 
to exercise that option, the lease term includes periods covered by 
an option to terminate the lease. The Bank reassesses whether it is 
reasonably certain to exercise an extension option, purchase option, 
or not to exercise a termination option, upon the occurrence of 
either a signiﬁcant event or a signiﬁcant change in the circumstances 
that is within the control of the Bank and affects whether the Bank is 
reasonably certain to exercise an option not previously included in its 
determination of the lease term.As lesseeRight-of-use assetsThe right-of-use assets of the Bank mainly include buildings and 
vehicles.At the commencement date of the lease, the Bank recognises a right-
of-use asset. The cost of the right-of-use asset comprises: (i) the 
amount of the initial measurement of the lease liabilities; (ii) any lease 
payments made at or before the commencement date of the lease 
less any lease incentives received; (iii) any initial direct cost incurred; 
and (iv) an estimate of costs incurred by the lessee in dismantling 
and removing the underlying asset, restoring the site on which it is 
located or restoring the underlying asset to the condition required 
by the terms and conditions of the lease. The right-of-use assets are 
depreciated on a straight-line basis subsequently by the Bank. If the 
Bank is reasonably certain that the ownership of the underlying asset 
will be transferred to the Bank at the end of the lease term, the Bank 
depreciates the asset from the commencement date to the end of 
the useful life of the asset. Otherwise, the bank depreciates the assets 
from the commencement date to the earlier of the end of the useful 
life of the asset or the end of the lease term.The Bank remeasures the lease liabilities at the present value of the 
changed lease payments and adjusts the carrying amount of the right-
of-use assets accordingly, when the carrying amount of the right-
of-use asset is reduced to zero, and there is a further reduction in 
the measurement of the lease liabilities, the Bank recognises the 
remaining amount of the remeasurement in proﬁt or loss.在租赁期开始日，本公司将尚未支付的租赁付款额的现值确认为
租赁负债，短期租赁和低价值资产租赁除外。在计算租赁付款额
的现值时，本公司采用承租人增量借款利率作为折现率。本公司
按照固定的周期性利率计算租赁负债在租赁期内各期间的利息费
用，并计入当期损益，但另有规定计入相关资产成本的除外。未
纳入租赁负债计量的可变租赁付款额于实际发生时计入当期损
益，但另有规定计入相关资产成本的除外。租赁期开始日后，当实质固定付款额发生变动、担保余值预计的
应付金额发生变化、用于确定租赁付款额的指数或比率发生变动、
购买选择权、续租选择权或终止选择权的评估结果或实际行权情
况发生变化时，本公司按照变动后的租赁付款额的现值重新计量
租赁负债。租赁变更租赁变更是原合同条款之外的租赁范围、租赁对价、租赁期限的
变更，包括增加或终止一项或多项租赁资产的使用权，延长或缩
短合同规定的租赁期等。租赁发生变更且同时符合下列条件的，本公司将该租赁变更作为
一项单独租赁进行会计处理：（1）该租赁变更通过增加一项或多项租赁资产的使用权而扩大了租赁范围；（2）增加的对价与租赁范围扩大部分的单独价格按该合同情况调整后的金额相当。租赁变更未作为一项单独租赁进行会计处理的，在租赁变更生效
日，本公司重新确定租赁期，并采用修订后的折现率对变更后的
租赁付款额进行折现，以重新计量租赁负债。在计算变更后租赁
付款额的现值时，本公司采用租赁变更生效日的本公司增量借款
利率作为折现率。就上述租赁负债调整的影响，本公司相应调整使用权资产的账面
价值。At the commencement date of the lease, the Bank measures the lease 
liabilities at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid at 
that date, except for short-term leases and leases of low-value assets. 
In calculating the present value of the lease payments, the Bank uses 
the lessee's incremental borrowing rate. The Bank calculates the interest 
expenses of the lease liabilities in each period during the lease term 
using the constant periodic rate of interest, and recognises such interest 
expenses in profit or loss, except those in the costs of the related 
asset as required. Variable lease payments that are not included in the 
measurement of the lease liabilities are recognised in profit or loss as 
incurred, except those in the costs of the related asset as required.After the commencement date of the lease, if there is a change on 
actual ﬁxed payment, expected payable of guaranteed residual value, 
the index or rate used to calculate the lease payment, purchase 
option, the assessment of option to extend the lease, option to 
terminate the lease or actual option exercise situation, the bank 
will recalculate the lease liabilities at the present value of the lease 
payments based changes occurred.Lease modiﬁcationsLease  modification  is  a  change  in  the  scope  of  a  lease,  or  the 
consideration for a lease, that was not part of the original terms and 
conditions of the lease, for example, adding or terminating the right 
to use one or more underlying assets, or extending or shortening the 
contractual lease term.The Bank accounts for a lease modiﬁcation as a separate lease if both:(1)   the modiﬁcation increases the scope of the lease by adding theright to use one or more underlying assets; and(2)  the  consideration  for  the  lease  increases  by  an  amount 
commensurate with the stand-alone price for the increase in 
scope and any appropriate adjustments to that stand-alone price 
to reﬂect the circumstances of the particular contract.For a lease modiﬁcation that is not accounted for as a separate lease, 
at the effective date of the lease modiﬁcation the Bank remeasures 
the lease liabilities by discounting the revised lease payments using 
a revised discount rate. The revised discount rate is determined as 
the lessee's incremental borrowing rate at the effective date of the 
modiﬁcation.For the above lease modification, the Bank makes a corresponding 
adjustment to the right-of-use asset.106107财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2020 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2020
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)短期租赁和低价值资产租赁Short-term leases and leases of low-value assets本公司将在租赁期开始日，租赁期不超过 12 个月，且不包含购买
选择权的租赁认定为短期租赁；将单项租赁资产为全新资产时价
值不超过 5,000 美元的租赁认定为低价值资产租赁。本公司转租或
预期转租租赁资产的，原租赁不认定为低价值资产租赁。本公司
对房屋及建筑物、运输工具类别的短期租赁和低价值资产租赁选
择不确认使用权资产和租赁负债。在租赁期内各个期间按照直线
法计入相关的资产成本或当期损益，或有租金在实际发生时计入
当期损益。16. 政府补助政府补助在能够满足其所附的条件并且能够收到时，予以确认。政
府补助为货币性资产的，按照收到或应收的金额计量。政府补助
为非货币性资产的，按照公允价值计量；公允价值不能可靠取得的，
按照名义金额计量。与收益相关的政府补助，用于补偿以后期间
的相关成本费用或损失的，确认为递延收益，并在确认相关成本
费用或损失的期间计入当期损益或冲减相关成本；用于补偿已发
生的相关成本费用或损失的，直接计入当期损益或冲减相关成本。
与资产相关的政府补助，冲减相关资产的账面价值；或确认为递
延收益，在相关资产使用寿命内按照合理、系统的方法分期计入
损益 ( 但按照名义金额计量的政府补助，直接计入当期损益 )，相
关资产在使用寿命结束前被出售、转让、报废或发生毁损的，尚
未分配的相关递延收益余额转入资产处置当期的损益。17.  股份支付本公司的股份支付为以权益结算的股份支付。以权益结算的股份支付换取员工提供服务的，以授予员工权益工
具的公允价值计量。授予后立即可行权的，在授予日按照公允价
值计入相关费用，相应增加资本公积；完成等待期内的服务或达到
规定业绩条件才可行权的，在等待期内每个资产负债表日，以对
可行权权益工具数量的最佳估计为基础，按照授予日的公允价值，
将当期取得的服务计入相关费用，相应增加资本公积。权益工具
的公允价值采用三叉树模型确定。The Bank considers a lease that, at the commencement date of the 
lease, has a lease term of 12 months or less, and does not contains any 
purchase option as a short-term lease; and a lease for which the value of 
the individual underlying asset is not more than USD5,000 when it is new 
as a lease of low-value assets. If the Bank subleases an asset, or expects 
to sublease an asset, the head lease does not qualify as a lease of a low-
value asset. The Bank does not recognise the right-of-use assets and lease 
liabilities for buildings and vehicles short-term leases and low-value assets. 
The Bank recognises lease payments on short-term leases and leases of 
low-value assets in the costs of the related asset or profit or loss on a 
straight-line basis over the lease term.(16) Government subsidiesGovernment subsidies will be recognised if the Bank can receive 
government subsidies and meet the conditions attached to government 
subsidies. If government subsidies are monetary assets, they shall 
be measured in the light of the amount received or receivable. If a 
government subsidy is a non-monetary asset, it shall be measured at its 
fair value; and if its fair value cannot be obtained in a reliable way, it shall 
be measured at a nominal amount. Government subsidies associated with 
income which are used as compensation for future costs, expenses or 
losses are recognized as deferred expenditures and shall be recorded in 
future proﬁts and losses to reverse the related costs where the relevant 
costs, expenses or losses are recognized. Government subsidies associated 
with income which are used to compensate the related costs, expenses 
or losses incurred by the Bank are directly included in current proﬁt and 
loss or used to reverse the related costs. Government subsidies associated 
with assets shall set off the book value of related assets or be recognized 
as deferred expenditures. Government subsidies related to assets are 
recognized as deferred expenditures to be distributed over the useful lives 
of the relevant assets and shall be recorded in the proﬁt or loss by stages 
in a reasonable and systematic manner. Government subsidies measured in 
nominal amounts, shall be directly recognized in current proﬁts and losses. 
Where relevant assets are sold, transferred, scraped or damaged before 
the end of their lives, balance of the unallocated deferred expenditures 
shall be recognized in current proﬁt and loss on asset disposal.(17) Share-based paymentThe Bank's share-based compensation programme is measured as an 
equity-settled share-based payment.The equity-settled share-based payment is measured by reference to the 
fair value of the equity instruments granted. Where the equity instruments 
granted vest immediately, the Bank recognises the expense in full at the 
fair value on grant date with a corresponding increase in capital reserve. 
Where the equity instruments granted vest upon the fulﬁlment of service 
period or performance conditions, the Bank makes a best estimate at the 
number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest, at each ﬁnancial 
reporting date of the vesting period, and recognise the expense pertaining 
to the current period at the fair value on grant date with a corresponding 
increase in capital reserve. The fair values of the equity instruments are 
estimated using the Trinomial valuation methodology.对于最终未能行权的股份支付，不确认费用，除非行权条件是市
场条件或非可行权条件，此时无论是否满足市场条件或非可行权
条件，只要满足所有可行权条件中的非市场条件，即视为可行权。如果修改了以权益结算的股份支付的条款，至少按照未修改条款
的情况确认取得的服务。此外，任何增加所授予权益工具公允价
值的修改，或在修改日对员工有利的变更，均确认取得服务的增加。如果取消了以权益结算的股份支付，则于取消日作为加速行权处
理，立即确认尚未确认的金额。员工能够选择满足非可行权条件但
在等待期内未满足的，作为取消以权益结算的股份支付处理。但是，
如果授予新的权益工具，并在新权益工具授予日认定所授予的新权
益工具是用于替代被取消的权益工具的，则以与处理原权益工具
条款和条件修改相同的方式，对所授予的替代权益工具进行处理。18. 职工薪酬职工薪酬，是指本公司为获得职工提供的服务或解除劳动关系而给
予的各种形式的报酬或补偿。职工薪酬包括短期薪酬、离职后福利、
辞退福利和其他长期职工福利。短期薪酬工资与奖金、社会保障福利及其他短期员工福利会于本公司员工
提供服务的期间计提。离职后福利（设定提存计划）本公司的员工参加由当地政府管理的养老保险和失业保险，相应
支出在发生时计入当期损益。本公司员工还可自愿参加本公司设立的企业年金计划。本公司按
员工工资的一定比例向年金计划缴款，相应支出计入当期损益。No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except 
for equity-settled transactions where vesting is conditional upon a market 
or non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of 
whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisﬁed, provided 
that all other performance and service conditions are satisﬁed.Where the terms of an equity–settled award are modiﬁed, as a minimum, 
an expense is recognised as if the terms had not been modified. An 
additional expense is recognised for any modiﬁcation which increases the 
total fair value of the share–based payments, or is otherwise beneﬁcial to 
the employee as measured at the date of modiﬁcation.Where an equity–settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested 
on the date of cancellation, and any expense not yet recognised for the 
award is recognised immediately. This includes any award where non–vesting 
conditions within the control of the employees are not met. However, if a new 
award is substituted for the cancelled award, and designated as a replacement 
award on the date that it is granted, the cancelled and new compensation are 
treated as if they were a modiﬁcation of the original award.(18) Employee beneﬁtsEmployee beneﬁts are all forms of consideration or compensation given by 
the Bank in exchange for service rendered by employees or for the termination 
of employment, including short-term employee beneﬁts, post-employment 
beneﬁts, termination beneﬁts and other long-term beneﬁts.Short-term employee beneﬁtsSalaries and bonuses, social security contributions and other short-term 
employee beneﬁts are accrued in the period in which services have been 
rendered by the employees of the Bank.Post-employment beneﬁts (deﬁned contribution plan)Employees of the Bank participate in the retirement insurance plan, and 
unemployment insurance plan administered by the local government, and 
the contribution is recognised to proﬁt or loss of that period.Employees of the Bank can participate in the annuity plan established 
by the Bank on a voluntary basis. The Bank contributes to the annuity at 
a certain percentage of employees' salary, and recognises the cost in the 
proﬁt or loss accordingly.108109财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2020 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2020
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)19. 所得税(19) Income tax20. 公允价值计量(20) Fair value measurement所得税包括当期所得税和递延所得税。除与直接计入所有者权益
的交易或事项相关的所得税计入所有者权益外，其他所得税均计
入当期损益。本公司对于当期和以前期间形成的当期所得税负债或资产，按照
税法规定计算的预期应交纳或返还的所得税金额计量。本公司根据资产与负债于资产负债表日的账面价值与计税基础之
间的暂时性差异，以及未作为资产和负债确认但按照税法规定可
以确定其计税基础的项目的账面价值与计税基础之间的差额产生
的暂时性差异，采用资产负债表债务法计提递延所得税。各种应纳税暂时性差异均据以确认递延所得税负债。对于可抵扣暂时性差异、能够结转以后年度的可抵扣亏损和税款
抵减，本公司以很可能取得用来抵扣可抵扣暂时性差异、可抵扣
亏损和税款抵减的未来应纳税所得额为限，确认由此产生的递延
所得税资产。本公司于资产负债表日，对于递延所得税资产和递延所得税负债，
依据税法规定，按照预期收回该资产或清偿该负债期间的适用税
率计量，并反映资产负债表日预期收回资产或清偿负债方式的所
得税影响。于资产负债表日，本公司对递延所得税资产的账面价值进行复核。
如果未来期间很可能无法获得足够的应纳税所得额用以抵扣递延
所得税资产的利益，减记递延所得税资产的账面价值。于资产负债
表日，本公司重新评估未确认的递延所得税资产，在很可能获得足
够的应纳税所得额可供所有或部分递延所得税资产转回的限度内，
确认递延所得税资产。同时满足下列条件时，递延所得税资产和递延所得税负债以抵销
后的净额列示：拥有以净额结算当期所得税资产及当期所得税负
债的法定权利；递延所得税资产和递延所得税负债是与同一税收
征管部门对同一应纳税主体征收的所得税相关或者对不同的纳税
主体相关，但在未来每一具有重要性的递延所得税资产和递延所
得税负债转回的期间内，涉及的纳税主体体意图以净额结算当期
所得税资产及当期所得税负债或是同时取得资产、清偿债务。Income tax includes current tax and deferred tax. Current income tax and 
movements in deferred tax balances are recognised in proﬁt or loss except 
that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case the tax 
is recognised directly in equity.Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods 
are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the 
taxation authorities in accordance with relevant tax regulations.Deferred income tax is provided, using the liability method, on all 
temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and 
their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes at the balance 
sheet date.Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary 
differences.Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary 
differences, carryforward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, to 
the extent that it is probable that taxable proﬁt will be available against 
which the deductible temporary differences, and the carryforward of 
unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised.Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are 
expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability 
is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or 
substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each 
financial reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer 
probable that sufﬁcient taxable proﬁt will be available to allow all or part 
of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised. Unrecognised deferred 
income tax assets are reassessed at each ﬁnancial reporting date and are 
recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable 
proﬁt will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset when fulﬁlling of 
the following conditions:
(i)  A legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assetsagainst current tax liabilities.(ii)  The deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are related 
to the income tax levied on the same taxpayer by the same tax 
administrative department or are related to different taxpayers 
but, within each future period of reversal of important deferred 
tax assets and deferred tax liabilities, the taxpayers involved 
intend to settle current tax assets and current tax liabilities or 
acquire assets and liquidate liabilities at the same time.本公司于每个资产负债表日以公允价值计量衍生金融工具、交易
性金融资产、其他以公允价值计量且其变动计入当期损益的金融
资产、其他债权投资以及交易性金融负债。公允价值，是指市场
参与者在计量日发生的有序交易中，出售一项资产所能收到或者
转移一项负债所需支付的价格。本公司以公允价值计量相关资产
或负债，假定出售资产或者转移负债的有序交易在相关资产或负
债的主要市场进行；不存在主要市场的，本公司假定该交易在相
关资产或负债的最有利市场进行。主要市场 ( 或最有利市场 ) 是本
公司在计量日能够进入的交易市场。本公司采用市场参与者在对
该资产或负债定价时为实现其经济利益最大化所使用的假设。本公司采用在当前情况下适用并且有足够可利用数据和其他信息
支持的估值技术，优先使用相关可观察输入值，只有在可观察输入
值无法取得或取得不切实可行的情况下，才使用不可观察输入值。在财务报表中以公允价值计量或披露的资产和负债，根据对公允
价值计量整体而言具有重要意义的最低层次输入值，确定所属的
公允价值层次：在计量日能够取得的相同资产或负债在活跃市场
上未经调整的报价为第一层次输入值；除第一层次输入值外相关
资产或负债直接或间接可观察的输入值为第二层次输入值；相关
资产或负债的不可观察输入值为第三层次输入值。每个资产负债表日，本公司对在财务报表中确认的持续以公允价
值计量的资产和负债进行重新评估，以确定是否在公允价值计量
层次之间发生转换。21. 关联方一方控制、共同控制另一方或对另一方施加重大影响，以及两方
或两方以上同受一方控制、共同控制或重大影响的，构成关联方。仅同受国家控制而不存在其他关联方关系的企业，不构成本公司
的关联方。At each ﬁnancial reporting date, the Bank measures its derivatives, ﬁnancial 
assets at fair value through profit or loss, other debt instrument at fair 
value through other comprehensive income and ﬁnancial liabilities at fair 
value through proﬁt or loss. Fair value is the price that would be received 
to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction 
between market participants at the measurement date. The fair value 
measurement is based on the assumption that the orderly transaction 
to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either in the principal 
market for the asset or liability, or in the absence of a principal market, 
in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability. The principal 
or the most advantageous market must be accessible to the Bank. The 
fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumption that 
market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, assuming 
that market participants act in their economic best interest.The  Bank  uses  valuation  techniques  that  are  appropriate  in  the 
circumstances and for which sufﬁcient data are available to measure the 
fair value. Use of observable inputs is maximized and unobservable inputs 
will only be used when observable inputs are not available or obtaining 
observable inputs becomes unpractical.For assets and liabilities measured and disclosed at fair value, the fair 
value measurement is categorised in its entirety in the same level of 
the fair value hierarchy as the lowest level input that is significant to 
the entire measurement: Level 1 inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in 
active markets for identical assets or liabilities that are accessible at the 
measurement date; Level 2 inputs are inputs other than quoted prices 
included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either 
directly or indirectly; Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset 
or liability.For assets and liabilities held at the end of the balance sheet date that are 
measured at fair value on a recurring basis, the Bank continues to make 
assessment as to whether there is transfer between different levels of the 
fair value hierarchy.(21) Related partiesParties are considered to be related if one party has the ability, directly 
or indirectly, to control the other party or exercise signiﬁcant inﬂuence 
over the other party.  Parties are also considered to be related if they are 
subject to common control or common signiﬁcant inﬂuence.The state-owned enterprises without other relationships do not constitute 
related parties.110111财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2020 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2020
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)22. 受托业务(22) Entrusted business合同现金流量特征Characteristics of the contractual cash ﬂows本公司以被任命者、受托人或代理人等受托身份进行活动时，该
委托活动所产生的资产与该资产偿还客户的保证未包括在本报表。23. 或有负债或有负债指过去的交易或者事项形成的潜在义务，其存在须通过
未来不确定事项的发生或不发生予以证实；或过去的交易或者事
项形成的现时义务，履行该义务不是很可能导致经济利益流出或
该义务的金额不能可靠计量，因此该义务不予确认。本公司对或有负债不予确认，仅在附注中加以披露。如情况发生
变化使得该事项很有可能导致经济利益的流出时，则将其确认为
预计负债。24. 重大会计判断和会计估计在本公司执行会计政策的过程中，管理层对财务报表未来不确定
事项作出了判断、估计和假设。这些判断、估计和假设会影响收入、
费用、资产和负债的列报金额及其披露。这些估计和假设的不确
定性所导致的结果可能造成对未来受影响的资产或负债的账面金
额进行重大调整。判断在应用本公司的会计政策的过程中，管理层作出了以下对财务报
表所确认的金额具有重大影响的判断：业务模式金融资产于初始确认时的分类取决于本公司管理金融资产的业务
模式，在判断业务模式时，本公司考虑包括企业评价和向关键管
理人员报告金融资产业绩的方式、影响金融资产业绩的风险及其
管理方式以及相关业务管理人员获得报酬的方式等。在评估是否
以收取合同现金流量为目标时，本公司需要对金融资产到期日前
的出售原因、时间、频率和价值等进行分析判断。Where  the  Bank  acts  in  an  entrusted  business  such  as  nominee, 
custodian  or  agent,  assets  arising  thereon  together  with  related 
undertakings to return such assets to customers are excluded from the 
ﬁnancial statements.(23) Contingent liabilitiesA contingent liability is a possible obligation that arises from past 
events and whose existence will only be conﬁrmed by the occurrence 
or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly 
within the control of the Bank. It can also be a present obligation 
arising  from  past  events  that  is  not  recognised  because  it  is  not 
probable that an outﬂow of economic resources will be required or 
the amount of obligation cannot be measured reliably.The Bank will not recognise contingent liabilities, but disclosed in the 
notes to ﬁnancial statements. In case the condition changes, which led 
to the outﬂow of economic resources is probable, provisions will be 
made.(24) Signiﬁcant accounting judgment and estimatesIn the process of applying the accounting policies, the management 
has used its judgments and made estimates and assumptions of the 
effects of uncertain future events on the ﬁnancial statements. The use 
of judgments, estimates and assumptions will affect the amount of 
income, expense, assets and liabilities presented and disclosed. The 
uncertainty of such estimates and assumptions might have a signiﬁcant 
risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets 
and liabilities in the future.JudgmentIn the process of applying the accounting policies, the management 
make  following  judgments  which  has  significant  impact  on  the 
amounts recognised in the ﬁnancial statements:Business modelFinancial assets are initially classified based on the Bank's business 
model for managing the ﬁnancial assets. The Bank judges the business 
model, with the consideration of enterprise evaluation, the reporting 
mode  to  key  management,  related  risk  and  corresponding  risk 
management method of ﬁnancial assets performance, and the reward 
system of related business personnel. The Bank analyses and judges the 
reason, timing, frequency and value of selling financial assets before 
maturity date when judging whether the business model is to collect 
contractual cash ﬂows or not.112金融资产于初始确认时的分类取决于金融资产的合同现金流量特
征，需要判断合同现金流量是否仅为对本金和以未偿付本金为基
础的利息的支付时，包含对货币时间价值的修正进行评估时，需要
判断与基准现金流量相比是否具有显著差异、对包含提前还款特
征的金融资产，需要判断提前还款特征的公允价值是否非常小等。估计的不确定性Financial assets are initially classiﬁed based on their contractual cash 
ﬂow characteristics. When judging whether the contractual cash ﬂow 
are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount 
outstanding, the considerations contain: (i)judging whether there exists 
signiﬁcant difference compared with the benchmark cash ﬂow, when 
evaluating the modiﬁcation of the time value of the money, (ii) judging 
whether fair value of the early repayment characteristics is immaterial 
for ﬁnancial assets with early repayment characteristics.以下为于资产负债表日有关未来的关键假设以及估计不确定性的
其他关键来源，可能会导致未来会计期间资产和负债账面金额重
大调整。Uncertainty of estimates金融工具减值2018 年 1 月 1 日之后，本公司采用预期信用损失模型对金融工具的
减值进行评估，应用预期信用损失模型需要做出重大判断和估计，
需考虑所有合理且有依据的信息，包括前瞻性信息。在做出这些
判断和估计时，本公司根据历史还款数据结合经济政策、宏观经
济指标、行业风险等因素推断债务人信用风险的预期变动。不同
的估计可能会影响减值准备的计提，已计提的减值准备可能并不
等于未来实际的减值损失金额。除金融资产之外的非流动资产减值本公司于资产负债表日对除金融资产之外的非流动资产判断是否
存在可能发生减值的迹象。对使用寿命不确定的无形资产，除每
年进行的减值测试外，当其存在减值迹象时，也进行减值测试。其
他除金融资产之外的非流动资产，当存在迹象表明其账面金额不可
收回时，进行减值测试。当资产或资产组的账面价值高于可收回金
额，即公允价值减去处置费用后的净额和预计未来现金流量的现
值中的较高者，表明发生了减值。公允价值减去处置费用后的净额，
参考公平交易中类似资产的销售协议价格或可观察到的市场价格，
减去可直接归属于该资产处置的增量成本确定。预计未来现金流量
现值时，管理层必须估计该项资产或资产组的预计未来现金流量，
并选择恰当的折现率确定未来现金流量的现值。The following items are the key hypothesis about the future and other key 
source of uncertainty of estimates on ﬁnancial reporting date. It may cause 
signiﬁcant modiﬁcation on carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the 
future accounting period.Impairment of ﬁnancial instrumentsThe Bank uses the expected credit loss model to evaluate the impairment 
of financial instruments since 1 January, 2018. Applying the expected 
credit loss model need to make signiﬁcant judgment and estimates with 
consideration of all reasonable information with proper basis, including 
the forward-looking information. When making those judgment and 
estimates, the Bank deduces the expected changes of obligor's credit 
risk with consideration of the historical repayment data combined with 
the economic policy, macroeconomic indicators, industry risk and etc. 
Different estimates may affect the impairment provision. The provision for 
impairment may not equal amount of impairment losses in the future.Impairment of non-current assets besides ﬁnancial assetsNon-current assets other than ﬁnancial-assets are reviewed for impairment 
on ﬁnancial reporting date. When the carrying amount of an asset is greater 
than its estimated recoverable amount, it is written down immediately to 
its recoverable amount. For intangible assets with indeﬁnite useful lives, the 
impairment test is made annually and when impairment indications exist. For 
other non-current assets besides ﬁnancial assets, the impairment test is made 
when there is an indication that their carrying amount is not recoverable. 
When the carrying amount of an asset or a group of assets is higher than 
their recoverable amount, i.e. higher of its fair value less costs to sell and the 
present value of estimated future discounted cash ﬂows, it is indicated that 
the impairment losses have occurred. Fair value less costs to sell refers to the 
selling contract price from fair trading of similar asset or the observable market 
price, less the incremental costing directly attributes to the asset disposal. 
When estimating the present value of future discounted cash flows. The 
management must estimate the future cash ﬂow of the asset or the group of 
assets, and choose a proper discount rate to determine the present value.113财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2020 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2020
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)递延所得税资产Deferred income tax assets五、会计政策和会计估计变更5. Changes in accounting policies and estimates在很可能有足够的应纳税所得额用以抵扣可抵扣亏损的限度内，
应就所有尚未利用的可抵扣亏损确认递延所得税资产。这需要管
理层运用大量的判断来估计未来取得应纳税所得额的时间和金额，
结合纳税筹划策略，以决定应确认的递延所得税资产的金额。金融工具的公允价值对于存在活跃市场的金融工具，本公司优先采用活跃市场的报价
确定其公允价值。对于不存在活跃市场的金融工具，本公司采用
估值技术确定其公允价值。估值技术包括参考熟悉情况并自愿交
易的各方最近进行的市场交易中使用的价格、参照实质上相同的
其他金融工具的当前公允价值和现金流量折现法等。在可行的情
况下，估值技术尽可能使用市场参数。然而，当缺乏市场参数时，
管理层需就自身和交易对手的信贷风险、市场波动率、相关性等
方面作出估计。这些相关假设的变化会对金融工具的公允价值产
生影响。金融工具终止确认于金融工具转移交易中，本公司管理层需就与所转移金融工具所
有权有关的风险及报酬进行分析与判断，并根据分析的结果进行
相应的账务处理。承租人增量借款利率本公司采用承租人增量借款利率作为折现率计算租赁付款额的现
值。确定增量借款利率时，本公司根据所处经济环境，以可观察
的利率作为确定增量借款利率的参考基础，在此基础上，根据自
身情况、标的资产情况、租赁期和租赁负债金额等租赁业务具体
情况对参考利率进行调整以得出适用的增量借款利率。Deferred tax assets are recognised for all unused tax losses to the 
extent that it is probable that taxable proﬁt will be available against 
which the losses can be utilised. Signiﬁcant management judgement is 
required to determine the amount of deferred tax assets that can be 
recognised, based upon the likely timing and level of future taxable 
proﬁts together with future tax planning strategies.Fair value of ﬁnancial instrumentsThe Bank establishes fair value of ﬁnancial instruments with reference 
to a quoted market price in an active market or, if there is no active 
market, using valuation techniques. These valuation techniques include 
the use of recent arm's length transactions, observable prices for 
similar instruments, discounted cash ﬂow analysis using risk-adjusted 
interest rates, and commonly used market pricing models. Whenever 
possible  these  models  use  observable  market  inputs  and  data 
including, for example, interest rate yield curves, foreign currency rates 
and option volatilities. The results of using valuation techniques are 
calibrated against the industry practice and observable current market 
transactions in the same or similar instruments.Derecognition of ﬁnancial instrumentsThe Bank assesses and judges on the extent to which it retains the 
risks and rewards of ownership of the financial instruments for the 
transferred transactions entered into, and make relevant accounting 
treatments accordingly.Lessee's incremental borrowing rateThe Bank measures the lease liability at the present value of the 
lease payments discounted using the lessee's incremental borrowing 
rate. According to the economic environment, the Bank takes the 
observable interest rate as the reference basis for determining the 
incremental borrowing rate, then adjusts the observable interest rate 
based on its own circumstances, underlying assets, lease terms and 
amounts of lease liabilities to determine the applicable incremental 
borrowing rate.关联方披露范围Disclosure of related parties根据《企业会计准则解释第 13 号》要求，自 2020 年 1 月 1 日起，对本
公司此前未视为关联方的下列各方作为关联方：本公司所属企业集团
的其他成员单位（包括母公司和子公司）的合营企业及其子公司或联
营企业及其子公司、对本公司实施共同控制的企业的合营企业及其子
公司或联营企业及其子公司、对本公司施加重大影响的企业的合营企
业及其子公司、合营企业的子公司、联营企业的子公司。该会计政策
变更影响了关联方的判断以及关联方交易的披露，按照衔接规定不追
溯调整比较数据。六、税项本公司本年度主要税项及其税率列示如下：According to Accounting Standard for Business Enterprises Interpretation 
No.13  from  1  January  2020,  the  following  parties  which  were  not 
considered as related party previously are treated as related parties: 
associates or joint ventures of other members (including a parent and 
subsidiary) of a group of which the Company is a member, and their 
subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures of an entity that has joint control 
over the Company, and their subsidiaries, joint ventures of an entity 
that has significant influence over the Company, and their subsidiaries, 
subsidiaries of joint ventures, subsidiaries of associates. The change in 
accounting policies has affected the judgement on related parties and 
the disclosure of related party transactions.  According to transitional 
provisions, comparative amounts were not adjusted retrospectively.6. TaxationThe major categories of tax applicable to the Bank and the respective tax 
rates for the current ﬁnancial year are as follows:增值税
Value-added tax应税收入按 13% 或 6% 的税率计算销项税，并按扣除当期允许抵扣的进项税额后的差额计缴增值税。
The Bank is subjected to a Value-added output tax levied on 13 per cent or six per cent of taxable income 
deduct the input tax.城市维护建设税
City construction tax按实际缴纳的流转税的 7% 计缴。
The Bank is subjected to a city construction tax rate of seven per cent on turnover tax.教育费附加
Educational surcharge按实际缴纳的流转税的 3% 计缴。
The Bank is subjected to an educational surcharge rate of three per cent on turnover tax.企业所得税
Corporate income tax按应纳税所得额的 25% 计缴。
The Bank is subjected to a corporate tax rate of 25 per cent.代扣缴个人所得税
Withholding individual Income tax本公司支付给雇员的薪金，由本公司按税法代扣缴个人所得税。
In accordance with the relevant tax laws in the PRC, the Bank is required to withhold individual income tax 
on salaries paid to its employees.114115财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2020 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2020
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)七、财务报表主要项目附注7. Notes to ﬁnancial statements1. 现金及存放中央银行款项(1) Cash and deposit with the Central Bank3. 拆出资金(3) Placements with banks and other ﬁnancial institutions库存现金Cash on hand存放中央银行法定准备金 - 人民币 Statutory deposit reserve with the Central Bank - RMB存放中央银行法定准备金 - 外币Statutory deposit reserve with the Central Bank - foreign currency存放中央银行外汇风险准备金Foreign exchange risk reserve with the Central Bank存放中央银行的其他款项Other deposits with the Central Bank应收利息Interest receivable减：存放中央银行款项减值准备Less: allowance for impairment losses合计Total根据中国人民银行的有关规定，本公司必须按一定比率缴付存款准
备金于中国人民银行。于 2020 年 12 月 31 日，本公司人民币及外币
存款准备金缴存比例分别为 10.5%（2019 年 12 月 31 日：11%）及 5%（2019
年 12 月 31 日：5%）。从 2015 年 10 月起，根据中国人民银行的有关规定，本公司按月缴纳
外汇风险准备金，每月按上月远期售汇签约额的一定比例缴存外汇风
险准备金。2020 年 10 月起，外汇风险准备金的缴存比例由 20% 调整
至 0%。于 2020 年 12 月 31 日及 2019 年 12 月 31 日，本公司将存放中央银行款
项纳入阶段一，按其未来 12 个月内预期信用损失计量减值准备。The Bank places statutory deposit reserves with the People's Bank of China 
(PBOC) in accordance with relevant regulations issued by it. As at 31 December 
2020, statutory deposit reserves placed with the PBOC were calculated at 10.5 
per cent (31 December 2019: 11 per cent) and ﬁve per cent (31 December 2019: 
ﬁve per cent) of qualiﬁed RMB deposits and foreign currency deposits from 
customers respectively.The Bank places foreign exchange risk reserve with the PBOC monthly 
in accordance with relevant regulations since October 2015. The foreign 
exchange risk reserve is calculated at a certain percentage of the contractual 
amount of forward sales of exchanges in the preceding month. The foreign 
exchange risk reserve ratio reduced from 20 per cent to zero per cent since 
October 2020.As at 31 December 2020 and 31 December 2019, the Bank included all deposit 
with the Central Bank in Stage I, and measured the impairment losses based 
on expected credit losses in the next 12 months (12-month ECL).31-12-20204,163,6443,304,047,179284,969,029586,468,851512,775,2191,655,508(486,116)31-12-20196,161,2983,639,084,655286,104,723975,437,7641,570,033,4891,391,298(669,977)拆放及借出境内银行同业及
其他金融机构Placements with domestic banks and other ﬁnancial institutions拆放及借出境外银行同业Placements with overseas banks应收利息小计Interest receivableSub-total减：拆放同业减值准备Less: allowance for impairment losses31-12-202031-12-20194,821,387,3601,846,037,00010,092,4646,122,336,9051,367,659,00020,860,8936,677,516,8247,510,856,798(9,624,176)(11,010,576)4,693,593,3146,477,543,250拆出资金净额Net amount of placements with banks and other ﬁnancial institutions6,667,892,6487,499,846,222拆放同业减值准备为本公司根据银监发 [2010]45 号《中国银监会关于
印发〈银行业金融机构国别风险管理指引〉的通知》的规定而计提的
国别风险减值准备以及按照 12 个月预期信用损失计提的减值准备。于 2020 年 12 月 31 日及 2019 年 12 月 31 日，本公司将全部拆出资金纳
入阶段一，按其未来 12 个月内预期信用损失计量减值准备。Impairment provisions for placements represented the country risk reserve 
provided according to Yin Jian Fa [2010] No. 45 Circular of the China Banking 
Regulatory Commission on Printing and Distributing the Guidelines for 
Country Risk Management of the Banking Financial Institutions issued by 
CBIRC, and the provision for impairment measured according to 12-month 
expected credit loss.As at 31 December 2020 and 31 December 2019, the Bank included all 
placements with banks and other financial institutions in Stage I, and 
measured the impairment losses based on expected credit losses in the next 
12 months (12-month ECL).4. 交易性金融资产(4) Financial assets held-for-trading以公允价值计量且其变动计入
当期损益的金融资产：Financial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss:2. 存放同业款项(2) Due from banks and other ﬁnancial institutions中央银行票据及国债Central Bank bills and government bonds存放境内银行同业及其他金融机构 Due from domestic banks and other ﬁnancial institutions存放境外银行同业Due from overseas banks应收利息小计Interest receivableSub-total减：存放同业减值准备Less: allowance for impairment losses存放同业净额Net amount of due from banks and other ﬁnancial institutions31-12-2020901,033,5432,794,856,980491,4693,696,381,992(15,668,827)3,680,713,16531-12-2019937,724,434920,510,122459,5701,858,694,126(6,255,224)1,852,438,902存放同业减值准备为本公司根据银监发 [2010]45 号《中国银监会关于
印发 < 银行业金融机构国别风险管理指引 > 的通知》的规定而计提的
国别风险减值准备以及按照 12 个月预期信用损失计提的减值准备。于 2020 年 12 月 31 日及 2019 年 12 月 31 日，本公司将全部存放同业款
项纳入阶段一，按其未来 12 个月内预期信用损失计量减值准备。Impairment provisions for due from banks and other financial institutions 
represented the country risk reserve provided according to Yin Jian Fa [2010] 
No. 45 Circular of the China Banking Regulatory Commission on Printing and 
Distributing the Guidelines for Country Risk Management of the Banking 
Financial Institutions issued by CBIRC, and the provision for impairment 
measured according to 12-month expected credit loss.As at 31 December 2020 and 31 December 2019, the Bank included all due from 
banks and other ﬁnancial institutions in Stage I, and measured the impairment 
losses based on expected credit losses in the next 12 months (12-month ECL).116拆放同业同业存单应收利息合计Placement with banks and other ﬁnancial institutionsNegotiable certiﬁcates of depositInterest receivableTotal31-12-202031-12-2019149,776,650821,291,982547,659,6506,513,562-684,165,157740,087,7001,405,5201,525,241,8441,425,658,377117财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2020 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2020
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)5. 衍生金融工具(5) Derivative ﬁnancial instruments6. 买入返售金融资产(6) Reverse repurchase ﬁnancial assets衍生金融工具指一种金融产品，其价值取决于其所依附的另一种“基
础性”金融产品指数或其他变量的价值。通常这些“基础性”产品包括
股票、大宗商品、债券市价、指数市价或汇率及利率等。本公司运
用的衍生金融工具包括远期合约、掉期、期权和期货。A derivative is a ﬁnancial instrument, the value of which is derived from the 
value of another "underlying" financial instrument, an index or some other 
variables. Typically, an "underlying" ﬁnancial instrument is a share, commodity 
or bond price, an index value or an exchange or interest rate. The Bank uses 
derivative instruments such as forwards, swaps, options and futures.衍生金融工具的名义金额是指其所依附的“基础性”资产的合同价值，
体现资产负债表日未结清的部分。该合同价值反映了会计核算期末本
公司的衍生金融工具的风险敞口而非公允价值。本公司无为套期保值目的而被指定为套期工具的衍生金融工具。The notional amount of a derivative represents the amount of underlying 
asset upon which the value of the derivative is based. It indicates the 
unsettled volume of business transaction at the balance sheet date. The 
amount of underlying asset reﬂects the risk exposure of derivative at the end 
of accounting period other than fair value.本公司于资产负债表日所持有的衍生金融工具如下：The Bank has no derivative designated as hedging instruments.The notional amount and fair value of the Bank's derivative instruments are as 
follows:31-12-202031-12-2019公允价值 Fair Value公允价值 Fair Value名义金额
Notional Amount资产
Assets负债
Liabilities名义金额
Notional Amount资产
Assets负债
Liabilities8,797,620,81844,514,86199,178,0778,960,089,203160,513,88074,027,568351,342,390,2968,773,152,0719,055,376,169276,786,396,7442,512,196,2872,659,081,33032,502,777,345637,786,380435,045,79146,643,484,190196,570,680240,972,343392,642,788,4599,455,453,3129,589,600,037332,389,970,1372,869,280,8472,974,081,241外汇衍生工具：Foreign exchange contracts:远期合约掉期合约期权合约ForwardsSwapsOptions小计利率衍生工具：Sub-total
Interest rate contracts:掉期合约Swaps243,447,312,2041,106,967,6531,047,472,263254,744,182,319715,988,782743,648,913小计
商品价格挂钩工具：Commodity contracts:Sub-total243,447,312,2041,106,967,6531,047,472,263254,744,182,319715,988,782743,648,913掉期合约Swaps5,155,710,682177,610,492177,092,7413,464,077,941131,712,810131,226,230小计
股票价格挂钩工具：Equity contracts:Sub-total5,155,710,682177,610,492177,092,7413,464,077,941131,712,810131,226,230期权合约Options639,119,7261,679,1731,702,7321,698,436,0134,099,733小计
贵金属衍生工具： Precious metal derivativesSub-total639,119,7261,679,1731,702,7321,698,436,0134,099,7334,126,3464,126,346ForwardsSwapsOptionsFuturesSub-totalTotal远期合约掉期合约期权合约期货合约小计合计11820,331,014,212780,277,619703,007,73018,735,007,298325,787,753226,100,6126,167,899,79737,819,46372,602,4083,029,411,24071,990,33657,797,623---17,140,767234,681234,6251,582,042,1227,328,62919,885,714485,371,12014,682,947-28,080,956,131825,425,711795,495,85222,266,930,425412,695,717284,132,860669,965,887,20211,567,136,34111,611,363,625614,563,596,8354,133,777,8894,137,215,590按交易对手分类：Classiﬁed by counter-party:同业应收利息减：减值准备合计按质押品分类：债券应收利息减：减值准备合计Financial institutionsInterest receivableLess: allowance for impairment lossesClassiﬁed by type of pledged assets：BondsInterest receivableLess: allowance for impairment lossesTotal31-12-202031-12-20192,271,360,0003,246,540,0002,481,680(204,966)7,561,612(353,251)2,273,636,7143,253,748,3612,271,360,0003,246,540,0002,481,680(204,966)7,561,612(353,251)2,273,636,7143,253,748,361于 2020 年 12 月 31 日及 2019 年 12 月 31 日，本公司将全部买入返售金
融资产纳入阶段一，按其未来 12 个月内预期信用损失计量减值准备。As at 31 December 2020 and 31 December 2019, the Bank included all reverse 
repurchase financial assets in Stage I, and measured the impairment losses 
based on expected credit losses in the next 12 months (12-month ECL).7. 发放贷款和垫款7.1 按个人和企业分布(7) Loans and advances to customers(7.1) Distribution of loans and advances by individual and corporate31-12-202031-12-2019以摊余成本法计量的发放贷款和垫款 Loans and advances to customers at amortised cost个人贷款和垫款：住房按揭其他小计企业贷款和垫款：贷款贴现贸易融资小计Retail loans and advances:MortgagesOthersSub-total
Corporate loans and advances:LoansDiscounted billsTrade ﬁnanceSub-total以公允价值计量且其变动
计入当期损益的发放贷款和垫款Loans and advances to customers at fair value through proﬁt and 
loss合计贷款应收利息发放贷款和垫款总额减：贷款减值准备TotalInterest receivableTotal amount of loans and advancesLess: allowance for impairment losses发放贷款和垫款账面价值Net value of loans and advances to customers5,732,690,0026,829,629,5591,351,9871,842,1905,734,041,9896,831,471,74917,426,062,4381,051,912,19911,802,993,58230,280,968,21918,931,983,972258,427,1758,745,626,92427,936,038,071866,797,767981,432,22836,881,807,97535,748,942,048174,613,35137,056,421,326(870,385,199)36,186,036,127176,211,39635,925,153,444(780,738,832)35,144,414,612119财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2020 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2020
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)7.2 按行业分布(7.2) Distribution of loans and advances to customers by industry7.4 按担保方式分布(7.4) Loans and advances to customers by type of collateral or guarantee房地产业制造业批发和零售业金融业Real estatesManufacturingWholesale and retailFinance信息传输、软件和信息技术服务业 Telecommunication, software and 
information management services住宿和餐饮业Accommodation and catering交通运输、仓储和邮政业Transportation, storage and post租赁和商务服务业农林牧渔业Leasing and commercial servicesAgriculture, forestry, farming and ﬁshing电力、热力、燃气及水生产和供应业 Electricity, heat, gas and water supply卫生、社会保障和社会福利业Health, social security and social welfare建筑业Construction科学研究和技术服务业Scientiﬁc research and technical services教育业Education居民服务、修理和其他服务业Residents services, repair and other services个人贷款合计贷款应收利息发放贷款和垫款总额减：贷款减值准备Retail loanTotalInterest receivableTotal amount of loans and advancesLess: allowance for impairment losses发放贷款和垫款账面价值Net value of loans and advances to customers31-12-2020账面余额
Amount比例
Percentage账面余额 
Amount31-12-2019比例
Percentage9,256,345,9577,292,548,8266,921,873,2221,933,416,7861,266,862,5281,213,622,4951,052,765,235543,903,034533,781,913454,948,415368,994,019263,378,48643,639,8071,685,263-25%20%19%5%3%3%3%1%1%1%1%1%---9,571,546,4387,602,150,1856,252,272,9021,538,642,473887,562,5301,206,711,997384,427,303119,722,949200,000,000303,478,969361,613,033363,348,56693,299,68926,693,2656,000,00027%21%18%5%2%3%1%-1%1%1%1%---5,734,041,98917%6,831,471,74936,881,807,975100%35,748,942,04819%100%174,613,35137,056,421,326(870,385,199)36,186,036,127176,211,39635,925,153,444(780,738,832)35,144,414,6127.3 按地区分布(7.3) Distribution of loans and advances to customers by geographical region东北华东华北华中华南西南西北境外地区合计贷款应收利息NortheastEastNorthCentralSouthSouthwestNorthwestOverseasTotalInterest receivable发放贷款和垫款总额减：贷款减值准备Total amount of loans and advancesLess: allowance for impairment losses发放贷款和垫款账面价值Net value of loans and advances to customers12031-12-20201,220,488,04715,756,734,6727,130,310,3691,017,390,9125,803,857,0523,996,084,325296,910,3641,660,032,23436,881,807,975174,613,35137,056,421,326(870,385,199)36,186,036,12731-12-2019904,599,52618,625,920,7036,689,249,129965,661,5464,436,905,1842,722,592,826312,000,0001,092,013,13435,748,942,048176,211,39635,925,153,444(780,738,832)35,144,414,612信用贷款保证贷款附担保物贷款其中：抵押贷款质押贷款Unsecured loansGuaranteed loansLoans with collateralsOf which:Secured by mortgagesSecured by pledges发放贷款和垫款总额减：贷款减值准备Total amount of loans and advancesLess: allowance for impairment losses发放贷款和垫款账面价值Net value of loans and advances to customers7.5 逾期贷款(7.5) Overdue Loan31-12-20206,153,734,8276,089,453,29024,813,233,20919,068,821,8205,744,411,38937,056,421,326(870,385,199)36,186,036,127逾期 1 天至
90 天
Overdue 1 day
 to 90 days逾期 91 天至 1 年
（含 1 年）
days to 1 year 
(inclusive)逾期 1 年至 3 年
（含 3 年）
Overdue 1 year to 3 
years (inclusive)逾期 3 年
以上
Overdue  3 years 
above31-12-20194,911,545,8346,601,416,89924,412,190,71119,886,982,2504,525,208,46135,925,153,444(780,738,832)35,144,414,61231-12-2020合计Total保证贷款Guaranteed loans7,370,00014,757,28327,806,538-49,933,821附担保物贷款Loans with collaterals2,691,06559,064,53419,178,7417,800,80988,735,149其中：Of which:抵押贷款质押贷款Secured by mortgages236,48552,283,60219,178,7417,800,80979,499,637Secured by pledges2,454,5806,780,932--9,235,512合计Total10,061,06573,821,81746,985,2797,800,809138,668,970逾期 1 天至
90 天
Overdue 1 day
 to 90 days逾期 91 天至 1 年
（含 1 年）
days to 1 year 
(inclusive)逾期 1 年至 3 年
（含 3 年）
Overdue 1 year to 3 
years (inclusive)逾期 3 年
以上
Overdue  3 years 
above31-12-2019合计Total保证贷款Guaranteed loans31,615,001---31,615,001附担保物贷款Loans with collaterals474,93268,490,080100,453,2887,800,808177,219,108其中：Of which:抵押贷款质押贷款Secured by mortgages474,93268,490,080100,453,2887,800,808177,219,108Secured by pledges-----合计Total32,089,93368,490,080100,453,2887,800,808208,834,109逾期贷款是指本金或利息逾期 1 天或以上的贷款。Overdue loans are loans of which the principals or related interests are 
overdue for one day or above.121财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2020 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2020
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)7.6 贷款损失准备(7.6)  Loan impairment provision8. 其他债权投资(8) Other debt instrument at fair value through other comprehensive income以摊余成本法计量的发放贷款和垫款减值准备按照本公司 12 个月预期
信用损失及整个存续期预期信用损失分别计提，减值准备的变动如下：The allowances for loans and advances measured at amortised cost are 
measured according to the 12-month expected credit loss and lifetime 
expected credit loss respectively. The movement of impairment provisions is 
as follows:第一阶段
Stage I第二阶段
Stage II第三阶段
Stage III未来 12 个月
预期信用损失
12-month expected
credit loss整个存续期
预期信用损失
Lifetime expected
credit loss整个存续期已发生
信用减值金融资产
Credit-impaired 
ﬁnancial assets 
(Lifetime expected 
credit loss)2020合计Total2020 年 1 月 1 日余额At 1 January 2020647,273,12968,696,76264,768,941780,738,8322020 年 1 月 1 日余额在本年 Opening balance on 1 January 2020-- 转入第二阶段-- 转入第三阶段-- 转回第一阶段Transfer to Stage IITransfer to Stage IIITransfer to Stage I本年计提与转回Charge/(reverse) during the year本年核销Writing off during the year收回以前年度核销Recovery of loans and advances 
previously written off折现回拨汇率变动年末余额Unwinding of discountExchange rate differenceClosing balance(40,118,101)(2,700,344)14,853,47014,566,42540,118,101(1,923,607)(14,853,470)73,724,959--------633,874,579165,762,745-4,623,951-156,464,179(154,378,231)-----244,755,563(154,378,231)--(730,965)70,747,875(730,965)870,385,199第一阶段
Stage I第二阶段
Stage II第三阶段
Stage III未来 12 个月
预期信用损失
12-month expected
credit loss整个存续期
预期信用损失
Lifetime expected
credit loss整个存续期已发生
信用减值金融资产
Credit-impaired 
ﬁnancial assets 
(Lifetime expected 
credit loss)2019合计Total2019 年 1 月 1 日余额At 1 January 2019605,230,79328,985,39280,222,475714,438,6602019 年 1 月 1 日余额在本年 Opening balance on 1 January 2019-- 转入第二阶段-- 转入第三阶段-- 转回第一阶段Transfer to Stage IITransfer to Stage IIITransfer to Stage I本年计提与转回Charge/(reverse) during the year本年核销Writing off during the year收回以前年度核销Recovery of loans and advances 
previously written off折现回拨汇率变动年末余额122Unwinding of discountExchange rate differenceClosing balance(12,549,336)12,549,336(359,616)880,95154,070,337-(880,951)28,042,985--------359,616-51,536,626(61,580,962)-(5,849,180)80,366--133,649,948(61,580,962)-(5,849,180)80,366647,273,12968,696,76264,768,941780,738,832应计利息Interest payable年末余额Closing balance本年公允
价值变动
Gains from 
change in fair 
value during the 
year成本Cost累计公允
价值变动
Accumulated 
gains from 
changes in fair 
value累计在其他综合收益
中确认的损失准备
Accumulated ECL 
recognised in other 
comprehensive 
income2020中央银行票据及国债 Central Bank bills andgovernment bonds政策性银行债券及商业
银行债券Bonds issued by policy banks 
and commercial banks92,611,603(21,117,772)5,842,134,1427,854,607,053(1,900,801)592,02051,027,680(13,614,077)2,646,973,0923,020,038,9022,138,294509,268同业存单合计Negotiable certiﬁcate of 
deposits-647,9732,540,169,5102,515,912,059981,166602,211Total143,639,283(34,083,876)11,029,276,744 13,390,558,0141,218,6591,703,4992019应计利息Interest payable年末余额Closing balance本年公允
价值变动
Gains from 
change in fair 
value during the 
year成本Cost累计公允
价值变动
Accumulated 
gains from 
changes in fair 
value累计在其他综合收益
中确认的损失准备
Accumulated ECL 
recognised in other 
comprehensive 
income98,746,55120,470,7085,405,545,9715,314,361,33936,261,054542,91351,781,47511,070,3382,517,083,8252,478,239,41518,148,881449,536中央银行票据及国债 Central Bank bills andgovernment bonds政策性银行债券及商业
银行债券Bonds issued by policy banks 
and commercial banks同业存单合计Negotiable certiﬁcate of 
deposits-837,8012,223,258,1402,207,317,0491,178,525604,224Total150,528,02632,378,84710,145,887,9369,999,917,80355,588,4601,596,673于 2020 年 12 月 31 日及 2019 年 12 月 31 日，本公司将全部其他债权投
资纳入阶段一，按其未来 12 个月内预期信用损失计量减值准备。本年在其他综合收益中确认的损失金额为人民币 33,977,049 元（2019
年：利得金额为人民币 32,834,631 元），本年终止确认时从其他综合
收益转入当期损益的利得金额为人民币 20,285,926 元（2019 年：人民
币 2,691,789 元）。As at 31 December 2020 and 31 December 2019, the Bank included all 
other debt instrument at fair value through other comprehensive income 
in Stage I, and measured the impairment losses based on expected credit 
losses in the next 12 months (12-month ECL).The amount of loss recognized in other comprehensive income in 2020 
was RMB33,977,049 (2019: the amount of profit RMB32,834,631), and the 
amount transferred from other comprehensive income to the current 
proﬁt was RMB20,285,926 (2019: RMB2,691,789).123财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2020 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2020
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)9. 固定资产(9) Fixed assets10. 使用权资产(10) Right-of-use asset原价：Cost:2020 年 1 月 1 日At 1 January 2020本年增加Additions本年在建工程转入 ( 附注七、13.2)Transfer from construction in progress (Note 7.13.2)本年处置2020 年 12 月 31 日累计折旧：2020 年 1 月 1 日本年计提本年处置DisposalsAt 31 December 2020
Accumulated depreciation:At 1 January 2020AdditionsDisposals2020 年 12 月 31 日At 31 December 2020固定资产净值及净额
2020 年 12 月 31 日Net book value and net carrying amount
At 31 December 2020运输设备
Motor vehicles办公及电脑设备
Ofﬁce equipment and 
computers2020合计
Total2,538,181416,095-(400,453)2,553,8232,320,294154,563(400,453)2,074,404102,802,290105,340,4718,819,633212,542(6,858,894)104,975,57170,354,29511,877,651(6,706,502)75,525,4449,235,728212,542(7,259,347)107,529,39472,674,58912,032,214(7,106,955)77,599,848成本：Cost:2020 年 1 月 1 日At 1 January 2020本年增加本年减少AdditionsDisposals2020 年 12 月 31 日At 31 December 2020累计折旧：Accumulated depreciation:2020 年 1 月 1 日At 1 January 2020本年计提本年减少AdditionsDisposals2020 年 12 月 31 日At 31 December 2020479,41929,450,12729,929,546账面价值Net book value and net carrying amount房屋及建筑物
Properties and 
buildings运输设备
Motor vehicles办公及电脑设备
Ofﬁce equipment 
and computers2019合计
Total2020 年 1 月 1 日At 1 January 20202020 年 12 月 31 日At 31 December 2020房屋及建筑物
Properties and buildings运输工具
Motor vehicles101,474,258132,198,878(48,550,582)185,122,55432,814,33871,799,320(38,516,789)66,096,86968,659,920119,025,6856,615,6442,600,166(3,357,940)5,857,8703,061,8092,687,280(2,940,237)2,808,8523,553,8353,049,018原价：Cost:2018 年 12 月 31 日At 31 December 20185,793,6902,538,181119,061,110127,392,981房屋及建筑物
Properties and buildings运输工具
Motor vehiclesChanges in accounting policies(5,793,690)--(5,793,690)成本：Cost:-----2,538,181119,061,110121,599,291---11,669,04311,669,043618,251618,251(28,546,114)(28,546,114)2,538,181102,802,290105,340,471-----2,093,92086,787,31688,881,236226,37411,976,19812,202,572-(28,409,219)(28,409,219)2,320,29470,354,29572,674,589217,88732,447,99532,665,8822019 年 1 月 1 日At 1 January 2019本年增加Additions2019 年 12 月 31 日At 31 December 2019累计折旧：Accumulated depreciation:2019 年 1 月 1 日At 1 January 2019本年计提Additions2019 年 12 月 31 日At 31 December 2019账面价值Net book value and net carrying amount2019 年 1 月 1 日At 1 January 20192019 年 12 月 31 日At 31 December 201957,611,45543,862,803101,474,2582,027,79530,786,54332,814,33855,583,66068,659,9205,106,6111,509,0336,615,644-3,061,8093,061,8095,106,6113,553,8352018 年 12 月 31 日At 31 December 20182,027,7952,093,92086,787,31690,909,031Changes in accounting policies(2,027,795)--(2,027,795)本年会计政策变更2019 年 1 月 1 日本年增加At 1 January 2019Additions本年在建工程转入 ( 附注七、13.2) Transfer from construction in progress (Note 7.13.2)本年处置2019 年 12 月 31 日累计折旧：DisposalsAt 31 December 2019
Accumulated depreciation:本年会计政策变更2019 年 1 月 1 日本年计提本年处置At 1 January 2019AdditionsDisposals2019 年 12 月 31 日At 31 December 2019固定资产净值及净额
2019 年 12 月 31 日Net book value and net carrying amount
At 31 December 20191242020合计
Total108,089,902134,799,044(51,908,522)190,980,42435,876,14774,486,600(41,457,026)68,905,72172,213,755122,074,7032019合计
Total62,718,06645,371,836108,089,9022,027,79533,848,35235,876,14760,690,27172,213,755125财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2020 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2020
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)11. 无形资产(11) Intangible assets12. 递延所得税资产(12) Deferred tax assets软件设备原价：年初余额本年购置SoftwareCost or valuation:Opening balanceAdditions20202019233,213,362217,984,199贷款及拆放同业损失准备其他金融资产减值准备Allowance for impairment losses on loan 
and placementAllowance for impairment losses on other 
ﬁnancial assets804,7822,157,358预计负债Provisions在建工程转入 ( 附注七、13.2)Transfer from construction in progress (Note 7.13.2)1,600,27425,199,910本年处置年末余额DisposalClosing balance累计摊销：Accumulated amortisation:-(12,128,105)235,618,418233,213,362年初账面余额Opening balance130,573,694114,661,915其他债权投资的未实现损益Unrealised gain/(loss) on other debt 
instrument at fair value through other 
comprehensive income衍生金融工具公允价值变动损益 Changes in fair value of derivatives其他以公允价值计量且其变动
计入当期损益的金融工具的公
允价值变动Changes in fair value of other ﬁnancial 
instruments at fair value through proﬁt or 
loss预提职工工资及奖金预提费用Payroll payablesAccrued liabilitiesOthersTotal其他合计年初余额
Opening balance本年计入损益
Credited/(Charged)
to proﬁt or loss本年计入所有者权益
Credited/ (Charged)
to equity134,825,25760,730,9362,211,9799,287,5662,803,8663,227,743---(13,897,115)(25,641,204)3,005,3723,933,0844,453,793(3,932,321)-13,592,45023,300,383(22,062,300)674,4283,673,7982,750,856-----2020年末余额
Closing balance195,556,1935,015,84512,515,309(304,665)(2,340,821)(19,056,928)4,607,5128,127,591(1,181,465)114,246,41175,099,71013,592,450202,938,571年初余额
Opening balance本年计入损益
Credited/(Charged)
to proﬁt or loss本年计入所有者权益
Credited/ (Charged)
to equity2019年末余额
Closing balance本年计提本年处置年末余额AdditionsDisposals23,474,31028,039,884-(12,128,105)贷款及拆放同业损失准备Allowance for impairment losses on loan 
and placement95,743,19439,082,063-134,825,257其他金融资产减值准备Allowance for impairment losses on other 
ﬁnancial assets3,749,682(1,138,534)(399,169)Closing balance154,048,004130,573,694预计负债Provisions6,341,0612,946,505-无形资产净值及净额Net book value and net carrying amount81,570,414102,639,668其他债权投资的未实现损益Unrealised  gain/(loss)  on  other  debt 
instrument  at  fair  value  through  other 
comprehensive income(6,760,573)-(7,136,542)(13,897,115)衍生金融工具公允价值变动损益 Changes in fair value of derivatives10,501,776(36,142,980)其他以公允价值计量且其变动
计入当期损益的金融工具的公
允价值变动Changes  in  fair  value  of  other  financial 
instruments at fair value through proﬁt or 
loss预提职工工资及奖金Payroll payables预提费用其他合计Accrued liabilitiesOthersTotal7,885,549(4,880,177)3,049,924883,1608,591,374(4,137,581)626,634(4,558,955)129,728,621(7,946,499)(7,535,711)114,246,4112,211,9799,287,566-----(25,641,204)3,005,3723,933,0844,453,793(3,932,321)126127财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2020 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2020
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)13. 其他资产长期待摊费用在建工程其他应收款Long-term deferred expensesConstruction in processOther receivables待认证进项税额及增值税留抵税额 Input VAT to be veriﬁed and VAT retained合计Total(13) Other assets附注
Notes13.113.213.331-12-202031-12-201966,444,84284,592,8134,070,6984,590,472658,649,844327,810,965133,849,49021,504,558863,014,874438,498,80813.1 长期待摊费用(13.1) Long-term deferred expenses年初余额本年增加Opening balanceAdditions本年在建工程转入 ( 附注七、13.2)Transfer from construction in progress (Note 7.13.2)本年处置本年摊销年末余额年初余额本年增加DisposalAmortisationClosing balanceOpening balanceAdditions本年在建工程转入 ( 附注七、13.2)Transfer from construction in progress (Note 7.13.2)本年摊销年末余额AmortisationClosing balance租入固定资产改良支出
Leasehold improvement76,979,996227,673218,090(577,810)其他
Others7,612,8171,429,631--2020合计
Total84,592,8131,657,304218,090(577,810)(16,749,770)(2,695,785)(19,445,555)60,098,1796,346,66366,444,842租入固定资产改良支出
Leasehold improvement其他
Others2019合计
Total79,743,51710,828,73690,572,2535,462,7685,855,1011,366,071-6,828,8395,855,101(14,081,390)(4,581,990)(18,663,380)76,979,9967,612,81784,592,81312813.2 在建工程年初余额本年增加Opening balanceAdditions转入固定资产（附注七、9）Transfer to ﬁxed assets (Note 7. 9)转入无形资产（附注七、11）Transfer to intangible assets (Note 7. 11)转入长期待摊费用（附注七、13.1）Transfer to long-term deferred expenses (Note 7. 13.1)转入管理费用年末净值13.3 其他应收款Transfer to administrative expensesNet closing balance(13.3) Other receivables应收及暂付款项Other receivable and prepayments减值准备年末净值Allowance for impairment lossesNet value(13.2) Construction in progress202020194,590,4728,310,964(212,542)(1,600,274)(218,090)(6,799,832)4,070,6982020662,353,313(3,703,469)658,649,84417,651,04018,612,694(618,251)(25,199,910)(5,855,101)-4,590,4722019329,380,814(1,569,849)327,810,965应收及暂付款项主要包括应收待结算及清算款项。应收及暂付款项的
账龄分析列示如下：Other receivable and prepayments mainly include items in the process of 
clearing and settlement. The aging analysis is as follows:账龄：1 年以内1-2 年2-3 年3 年以上小计减：减值准备合计AgingWithin 1 year1-2 years2-3 yearsMore than 3 yearsSub-totalLess: allowance for impairment lossesTotal31-12-2020625,475,11214,724,4486,065,85016,087,903662,353,313(3,703,469)658,649,84431-12-2019303,563,3417,926,4002,646,75315,244,320329,380,814(1,569,849)327,810,965129财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2020 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2020
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)其他应收款按照 12 个月预期信用损失及整个存续期预期信用损失计提
减值准备，减值准备的变动如下：The impairment provisions are measured according to the 12-month expected 
credit loss and lifetime expected credit loss. The movement of allowance for 
impairment losses is as follows:第一阶段
Stage I
未来 12 个月预期信用损失第二阶段
Stage II
整个存续期预期信用损失12-month expected credit lossLifetime expected credit loss第三阶段
Stage III
整个存续期已发生信用
减值金融资产
Credit-impaired ﬁnancial assets
(Lifetime expected credit loss)2020合计Total年初余额本年计提本年核销年末余额Opening BalanceAccrual during the yearWriting off during the yearEnding Balance1,569,8492,133,620-3,703,469--------1,569,8492,133,620-3,703,469第一阶段
Stage I
未来 12 个月预期信用损失第二阶段
Stage II
整个存续期预期信用损失12-month expected credit lossLifetime expected credit loss第三阶段
Stage III
整个存续期已发生信用
减值金融资产
Credit-impaired ﬁnancial assets
(Lifetime expected credit loss)2019合计Total年初余额本年计提本年核销年末余额Opening BalanceAccrual during the yearWriting off during the yearEnding Balance1,068,674501,175-1,569,849----1,320,0002,388,674827,9541,329,129(2,147,954)(2,147,954)-1,569,84914. 同业及其他金融机构存放款项(14) Due to banks and other ﬁnancial institutions境内银行同业及其他金融机构存放Due to domestic banks and other ﬁnancial institutions境外银行同业存放Due to overseas banks应付利息合计15. 拆入资金Interest payableTotal境内银行同业拆入及借入Placements from domestic banks境外银行同业拆入及借入Placements from overseas banksInterest payableTotal应付利息合计13031-12-20201,363,681,736258,906,5682,008,3211,624,596,625(15) Placements from banks and other ﬁnancial institutions31-12-20201,663,122,50014,852,172,95876,834,47416,592,129,93231-12-2019294,889,203193,982,2483,198,427492,069,87831-12-2019300,000,00013,035,326,974123,625,46113,458,952,43516. 交易性金融负债(16) Financial liabilities held-for-trading以公允价值计量且其变动计入当期损益的
金融负债：Financial liabilities at fair value through proﬁt or loss:同业拆入卖出回购款项应付利息合计Placement from banks and other ﬁnancial institutions3,504,079,6543,182,245,145Repurchase agreementsInterest payableTotal135,040,7255,111,739-931,4793,644,232,1183,183,176,62431-12-202031-12-201917. 卖出回购金融资产款(17) Repurchase agreements按担保物分类：Classiﬁed by collateral:(18) Customer deposits金融债券应付利息合计18. 吸收存款活期存款公司客户个人客户小计定期存款公司客户个人客户小计应付利息合计Financial BondInterest payableTotalCurrent deposits:Corporate customersIndividual customersSub-totalTime deposits:Corporate customersIndividual customersSub-totalInterest payableTotal31-12-202031-12-2019466,000,00069,704466,069,704720,000,000292,241720,292,24131-12-202031-12-201912,542,347,37511,288,182,3521,283,471,504902,535,02813,825,818,87912,190,717,38020,681,490,57424,571,183,1631,753,377,4572,494,319,45922,434,868,03127,065,502,622202,461,785249,868,32636,463,148,69539,506,088,328131财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2020 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2020
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)19. 应付职工薪酬(19) Payroll payables未付金额Amount unpaid工资、奖金、津贴和补贴Salary, bonus, subsidy and allowance社会保险费住房公积金Social insuranceHousing fund工会经费和职工教育经费Labour union expenditure and staff education fee设定提存计划Deﬁned contribution plan其中：基本养老保险费Of which: Pension fund企业年金缴费Annuity合计Total31-12-202031-12-201984,663,4832,688,118--16,692,797851,74915,841,048104,044,398105,737,9702,306,331-41,28213,575,1254,372,1299,202,996121,660,70820202019应付金额Amount payable工资、奖金、津贴和补贴Salary, bonus, subsidy and allowance575,975,628567,895,413社会保险费住房公积金Social insuranceHousing fund工会经费和职工教育经费Labour union expenditure and staff education fee设定提存计划Deﬁned contribution plan其中：基本养老保险费Of which: Pension fund企业年金缴费Annuity其他与员工相关的费用Other staff related expenses合计Total(20) Tax payablesValue added taxTax surchargesCorporate income taxWithholding taxOthersTotal20. 应交税费增值税附加税企业所得税代扣代缴税项其他合计13221,581,47428,889,2423,695,46327,947,7494,010,12923,937,62017,999,39328,010,12126,444,8525,144,27853,708,87440,741,89912,966,97519,654,508676,088,949700,858,04631-12-202024,694,4992,981,43779,510,30029,168,540522,165136,876,94131-12-201925,259,9463,045,4773,404,46830,808,148334,04362,852,08221. 应付债券金融债二级资本债同业存单合计(21) Debt securities issuedFinancial bondTier-two capital bond31-12-202031-12-20191,034,426,9091,033,269,2631,003,283,7941,002,668,373Negotiable certiﬁcates of deposit-709,614,871Total2,037,710,7032,745,552,507于 2020 年 12 月 31 日，应付债券余额列示如下：As at 31 December 2020, the amount of debt securities issued listed below:发行日期
Issue date已发行的金融债券：
Issued ﬁnancial bond:债券期限
Period发行金额
Issue amount本年发行
Actual issue amount本年计提利息
Accrued interest本年偿还 / 支付利息
Repayment年末余额
Closing balance2018/4/133 年 (3 years)1,000,000,000已发行的二级资本债：
Issued Tier-two capital bond2019/11/1510 年 (10 years)1,000,000,000--49,395,581(49,300,000)1,034,426,90948,015,450(48,000,000)1,003,283,7942018 年 4 月 13 日发行的金融债券为三年期固定利率债券，面值为人
民币 100 元，票面利率为 4.93%，每年付息一次，兑付日为 2021 年 4
月 17 日。The ﬁxed rate ﬁnancial bond issued on 13 April 2018 has a maturity of three 
years, with RMB100 par value and interest is paid annually at a ﬁxed rate of 4.93 
per cent per annum. The redemption date is 17 April 2021.2019 年 11 月 15 日发行的第一期二级资本债属于 10 年期固定利率债券，
面值为人民币 100 元，票面利率为 4.8%，每年付息一次。本行在满
足相关条件下有权选择在第 5 年末按面值提前一次性部分或全部赎
回本期债券。The tier-two capital bond issued on 15 November 2019 is a 10-year bond with 
RMB100 par value and interest is paid annually at a ﬁxed rate of 4.8 per cent 
per annum. The bond is redeemable at par at the option of the Bank, in part 
or in whole, at the end of the 5th year subject to the relevant conditions.本公司于 2020 年度在全国银行间市场发行 4 期人民币同业存单，面
值均为人民币 100 元，贴息发行，于 2020 年到期并偿付。Four negotiable certificates of deposit issued in 2020. The par value was 
RMB100, the interest rate was zero and had been redemption in 2020.本公司应付债券没有出现拖欠本金、利息，或赎回款项的违约情况。During the year ended 31 December 2020, the Bank did not default on any 
principal, interest or redemption amounts with respect to its debt securities 
issued.133财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2020 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2020
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)22. 预计负债(22) Provisions23. 租赁负债(23) Lease liabilities信用承诺及财务担保减值准备：Allowance for impairment losses on loan commitments and ﬁnancial 
guarantee contracts:年初余额本年增加年末余额Opening balanceIncreaseClosing balance31-12-202031-12-201937,150,26625,364,24312,910,96811,786,02350,061,23437,150,266信用承诺及财务担保按照 12 个月预期信用损失及整个存续期预期信
用损失计提减值准备，减值准备的变动如下：The allowance for impairment losses on loan commitments and financial 
guarantee contracts are measured according to the 12-month expected 
credit loss and lifetime expected credit loss. The movement of allowance for 
impairment losses are as follows:第一阶段
未来 12 个月
预期信用损失
Stage I
12-month expected
credit loss第二阶段
整个存续期
预期信用损失
Stage II
Lifetime expected
credit loss第三阶段
整个存续期已发生
信用减值金融资产
Stage III
Credit-impaired ﬁnancial assets 
(Lifetime expected credit loss)2020合计Total2020 年 1 月 1 日 余额Opening balance本年计提年末余额AccruedClosing balance33,207,2306,541,16039,748,390462,8656,369,8086,832,6733,480,17137,150,266-12,910,9683,480,17150,061,234第一阶段
未来 12 个月
预期信用损失
Stage I
12-month expected
credit loss第二阶段
整个存续期
预期信用损失
Stage II
Lifetime expected
credit loss第三阶段
整个存续期已发生
信用减值金融资产
Stage III
Credit-impaired ﬁnancial assets 
(Lifetime expected credit loss)2019合计Total2019 年 1 月 1 日余额Opening balance本年计提 / 转回Accrued/（Reversed)年末余额Closing balance24,459,6498,747,58133,207,230904,594(441,729)462,865-25,364,2433,480,17111,786,0233,480,17137,150,266房屋及建筑物Properties and buildings运输工具合计24. 其他负债Motor vehiclesTotal待结算及清算款项Settlement and clearing应付 IT 系统服务费IT system service fee预提费用装修尾款其他合计Accrued expenseRenovation payableOthersTotal(24) Other liabilities31-12-2020115,247,1573,185,820118,432,97731-12-2020448,401,76251,713,23821,502,725632,86560,952,909583,203,49931-12-201967,256,2973,681,40970,937,70631-12-2019238,609,61633,461,44616,819,1383,049,08143,536,969335,476,25025. 实收资本(25) Paid-up capital注册及实收资本Paid-up capital31-12-202031-12-2019大华银行有限公司 United Overseas Bank Limited等值人民币
RMB equivalent5,500,000,000%100等值人民币
RMB equivalent5,500,000,000%100上述实收资本已由上海诺德会计师事务所验证，并于 2015 年 6 月 25
日出具了沪诺德验字 (2015) 第 073 号验资报告。The above paid-up capital has been verified by Shanghai Nortex Certified 
Public Accounts Co.,Ltd., and the Capital Verification Report No. 073 of 
Shanghai Nortex (2015) was issued on 25 June 2015.26. 资本公积资本公积系本公司为换取员工服务，实施的股份支付计划下，以权益
结算的股份支付计入资本公积的余额。(26) Capital reserveIn exchange for employee service, the Bank runs a share-based compensation 
program which is equity settled with a corresponding charge to the capital 
reserve.134135财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2020 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2020
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)27. 其他综合收益(27) Other comprehensive income28. 盈余公积(28) Surplus reserves资产负债表中其他综合收益累积余额：Accumulated balance of other comprehensive income in the balance sheet:其他债权投资信用减值损失Credit impairment losses of other debt investments 
at fair value through other comprehensive income1,197,50580,1191,277,624其他债权投资公允价值变动Fair value changes of other debt instrument at fair 
value through other comprehensive income合计Total41,691,34542,888,850(40,777,351)(40,697,232)913,9942,191,6181-1-2020增减变动
Increase/(decrease)31-12-2020其他债权投资信用减值损失Credit impairment losses of other debt investments 
at fair value through other comprehensive income1,140,89056,6151,197,505其他债权投资公允价值变动Fair value changes of other debt instrument at fair 
value through other comprehensive income合计Total19,140,82920,281,71922,550,51622,607,13141,691,34542,888,8501-1-2019增减变动
Increase/(decrease)31-12-2019利润表中其他综合收益当期发生额：Other comprehensive income in the income statement:2020其他债权投资信用减值损失其他债权投资公允价值变动Credit  impairment  losses  of  other  debt 
instrument  at  fair  value  through  other 
comprehensive incomeFair value changes of other debt instrument 
at fair value through other comprehensive 
income税前金额Before tax减：前期计入其他综
合收益当期转入损益
Less: Transfer to the 
proﬁt or loss减：所得税Less: Income Tax税后金额After tax106,826-26,70780,119(34,083,876)20,285,925(13,592,450)(40,777,351)合计Total(33,977,050)20,285,925(13,565,743)(40,697,232)2019其他债权投资信用减值损失其他债权投资公允价值变动Credit  impairment  losses  of  other  debt 
instrument  at  fair  value  through  other 
comprehensive incomeFair value changes of other debt instrument 
at fair value through other comprehensive 
income税前金额Before tax减：前期计入其他综
合收益当期转入损益
Less: Transfer to the 
proﬁt or loss减：所得税Less: Income Tax税后金额After tax455,784-399,16956,61532,378,8472,691,7897,136,54222,550,516Total32,834,6312,691,7897,535,71122,607,131合计136年初余额本年增加年末余额Opening balanceIncreaseClosing balance根据公司法和本公司章程的规定，并经 2021 年 3 月 26 日董事会决议，
本公司按净利润的 10% 提取法定盈余公积金。法定盈余公积累计额
为本公司注册资本 50% 以上的，可不再提取。本公司在提取法定盈余公积金后，可提取任意盈余公积金。经批准，
任意盈余公积金可用于弥补以前年度亏损或增加股本。根据本公司
董事会会议的决议，本年度不提取任意盈余公积金。2020127,512,35310,873,135138,385,4882019115,075,95812,436,395127,512,353According  to  the Company Law of the PRC  and  the  Bank's  Articles 
of Association, accompanied with resolution passed by the Board of 
Directors on 26 March 2021, the Bank has appropriated 10 per cent of its 
net proﬁt to the statutory surplus reserves. The Bank should appropriate 
until the reserve balance reaches 50 per cent of its registered capital or 
above.After the statutory surplus reserves are appropriated,  the  Bank  may 
appropriate discretionary surplus reserves. Discretionary surplus reserves 
can be used to compensate for the accumulated losses of previous years 
or convert to capital upon approval. It has been determined by the Board 
of Directors of the Bank that no discretionary surplus reserves are to be 
appropriated this year.29. 一般风险准备(29) General reserves年初余额本年增加 /( 减少 )年末余额Opening balanceIncrease/(decrease)Closing balance2020816,675,49232,592,428849,267,9202019826,398,940(9,723,448)816,675,492本公司依照财金 [2012]20 号文《金融企业准备金计提管理办法》的
规定，从税后利润中按原则上不低于风险资产期末余额 1.5% 的比例
计提一般风险准备，作为利润分配处理。本公司根据 2021 年 3 月 26
日的董事会决议，提取一般风险准备人民币 32,592,428 元，一般风险
准备余额已达到风险资产期末余额 1.5%。According to the regulation CaiJin [2012] No. 20 Financial institution 
provision measurement Guideline, the Bank is required to set aside general 
reserves of at least 1.5 per cent of its total risk assets at year end from net 
profit. The Bank reversed general reserve amounting to RMB32,592,428 
according to the resolution passed by the Board of Directors on 26 March 
2021 and the amount has been up to 1.5 per cent of its total risk assets.137财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2020 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2020
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)30. 未分配利润(30) Retained earnings32. 手续费及佣金净收入(32) Net fees and commission income上年年末未分配利润Retained earnings brought forward净利润Net proﬁt for the year2020483,224,277108,731,3502019361,573,277124,363,947减：提取法定盈余公积Less: Appropriation to statutory surplus reserves(10,873,135)(12,436,395)( 提取 )/ 转回一般风险准备 Less: (Appropriation) /reverse to general reserves年末未分配利润Closing balance of retained earnings(32,592,428)548,490,0649,723,448483,224,277根据《中华人民共和国公司法》及本公司的公司章程，本公司利润
在（1）满足所有税务责任；（2）弥补以前年度亏损；（3）提取法
定盈余公积金；（4）提取一般风险准备；（5）提取任意盈余公积金后，
可以利润分配形式分配给股东。一般风险准备及各项基金的提取比
例在符合有关法规的前提下，由本公司董事会决定。分配利润的决
定由本公司董事会决定，并参考营运结果、财务状况及其他有关的
原因而厘定。According to the Company Law of the PRC and the Articles of Association 
of the Bank, the proﬁt of the Bank can only be distributed to shareholders 
after (1) fulﬁlling all tax responsibilities; (2) compensating any accumulated 
losses; (3) making appropriation to statutory surplus reserves; (4) making 
appropriation  to  the  general  reserves;  (5)  making  appropriation  to 
discretionary surplus reserves. The appropriation ratios of the general 
reserves and surplus reserves are decided by the Bank's Board of Directors 
in compliance with relevant regulations. The profit appropriation is 
decided by the Board of Directors of the Bank, with reference to the 
operating performance, ﬁnancial positions, and other relevant factors.手续费及佣金收入：Fees and commission income:结算与清算手续费Settlement and clearing fees代理业务手续费Agency brokerage fees信用承诺手续费Credit commitment fees与授信有关的收入Credit related income顾问和咨询费Consulting fees托管及其他受托业务佣金Commissions of trusteeship and others其他小计OthersSub-total手续费及佣金支出：Fees and commission expense:手续费支出小计Fee expensesSub-total手续费及佣金净收入Net fees and commission income2020201923,795,52718,193,57449,242,21451,297,661-46,240,2054,615,33423,519,99419,137,79650,043,34289,746,71219,379,28734,015,1043,636,273193,384,515239,478,50850,505,90450,505,90467,569,05767,569,057142,878,611171,909,45131. 利息净收入(31) Net interest income33. 投资收益(33) Investment income利息收入：存放及拆放同业存放中央银行发放贷款和垫款买入返售债券债券及同业存单小计利息支出：Interest income:Due from banks and placement with banks and other ﬁnancial institutionsDeposit with the Central BankLoans and advances to customersReverse repurchase ﬁnancial assets – bondsBond and negotiable certiﬁcate of depositsSub-totalInterest expense:同业及其他金融机构存放Due to banks and other ﬁnancial institutionsCustomer depositsPlacements from banks and other ﬁnancial institutions and othersBond and negotiable certiﬁcate of depositsLease liabilitiesSub-totalNet interest income吸收存款拆入资金及其他债券及同业存单租赁负债小计利息净收入1381,163,722,8141,537,936,819991,619,961834,069,035其他合计OthersTotal20202019133,343,73154,036,017384,352,55560,959,2671,605,760,4511,584,624,82058,013,598304,188,97886,581,585255,487,6272,155,342,7752,372,005,85424,246,968735,978,487278,893,545119,544,1965,059,61823,411,257942,691,931448,134,220120,774,2492,925,162衍生金融工具已实现净收益 Net realised gain on derivatives债券及同业存单投资净收益 Net realised gain on bond and negotiable certiﬁcate of deposits其他合计OthersTotal2020119,246,33042,540,59118,794,993180,581,91434. 公允价值变动净损益(34) Gain/(Loss) from changes in fair values衍生产品业务收入 - 公允价值变动损益 Changes of fair value of derivatives交易性金融负债 - 借入黄金Financial liabilities- held-for-trading-gold borrowing交易性金融负债 - 卖出回购Financial liabilities-Repurchase agreements发放贷款及垫款 - 借出黄金Loans and advances to customers-gold lending交易性金融资产Financial assets held-for-trading201918,485,05835,390,592(2,889,363)50,986,2872019148,957,30860,897,160-(24,975,903)(16,705,598)53,6532020(100,709,297)25,187,016(40,726)(25,680,361)93,892,092-(7,351,276)168,226,620139财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2020 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2020
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)35. 汇兑损益(35) Foreign exchange gain/(loss)39. 所得税费用(39) Income tax expenses汇兑损益包括外币交易因汇率变动而产生的损益以及外汇衍生金融工
具产生的损益。Foreign exchange gain/(loss) includes gain/(loss) of foreign business 
related to the changes of exchange rate and gain/(loss) arising from 
derivative ﬁnancial instruments.36. 其他收益(36) Other income与收益相关的政府补助Income-related on government subsidies合计Total20203,434,6353,434,63520191,961,4601,961,46037. 业务及管理费(37) General and administrative expenses当期所得税递延所得税合计Current income taxDeferred income tax expensesTotal202073,609,248(75,126,417)(1,517,169)20194,418,2467,946,49912,364,745所得税费用与利润总额的关系列示如下：The reconciliation of income tax expenses to proﬁt before tax is as follows:税前利润Proﬁt before tax按法定税率 25% 计算的税项Tax charge on a tax rate at 25 per cent对以前期间税项的调整Adjustment in respect of prior periods2020107,214,18126,803,54627,9082019136,728,69234,182,1736,351,106免税的国债利息收入Tax-free interest income of government bonds(37,255,680)(34,422,270)不可抵扣的税项费用Non-deductible items所得税费用Income tax expenses8,907,057(1,517,169)6,253,73612,364,745员工费用折旧费Staff costsDepreciation无形资产摊销费Amortization of intangible assets长期待摊费用摊销费Amortisation of long-term deferred expenses业务费用合计Other operating expensesTotal38. 信用减值损失(38) Credit impairment losses存放中央银行款项减值损失Impairment losses for deposit with the Central Bank存放同业减值损失拆放同业减值损失贷款减值损失Impairment losses for due from banks and other ﬁnancial institutionsImpairment losses for placements with banks20202019676,088,949700,858,04686,518,81423,474,31019,445,55546,050,92428,039,88418,663,380232,253,446275,349,5541,037,781,0741,068,961,7882020(183,861)9,413,603(1,386,400)2019(1,136,108)(54,147)(2,686,466)Impairment losses for loans244,755,563133,649,948信用承诺减值损失Impairment losses for credit commitment12,910,96811,786,023其他债权投资减值损失Impairment losses for other debt instrument at fair value through 
other comprehensive income买入返售金融资产减值损失Impairment losses for reverse repurchase ﬁnancial assets其他资产减值损失Impairment losses for other assets106,826(148,285)2,133,620455,784(2,030,336)1,329,129合计Total267,602,034141,313,827140141财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2020 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2020
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)40. 现金流量表补充资料(40) Supplementary information for the statement of cash ﬂows41. 现金及现金等价物(41) Cash and cash equivalent现金现金等价物：CashCash equivalents:原期限在三个月以内的With original maturity less than three months31-12-20204,163,64431-12-20196,161,298存放同业款项拆出资金买入返售金融资产拆出黄金Due from banks and other ﬁnancial institutions3,487,356,3081,609,585,664Placements with banks and other ﬁnancial institutions3,628,910,2183,787,085,371Reverse repurchase ﬁnancial assets2,271,360,0003,246,540,000Gold lending27,499,014-债券及同业存单投资（从购买日起三个月内到期）Bond and negotiable certiﬁcate of deposit investments 
(tenor within three months from purchase date)648,072,570748,681,450存放中央银行其他款项Other deposits with the Central Bank512,775,2191,570,033,489小计合计Sub-totalTotal10,575,973,32910,961,925,97410,580,136,97310,968,087,272本公司的股份支付计划包括限制性股票激励计划和股票增值权激励
计划。相关计划涉及的股份均系大华银行的股份。于 2020 年 12 月 31
日发行在外的限制性股票激励计划的股份数为 297,125 份，剩余合同
期限范围为 1 至 3 年；于 2020 年 12 月 31 日可行权的股票增值权为 0 份。Share-based compensation plans of the Bank comprise the Restricted 
Share Plan and the Share Appreciation Rights Plan. All shares involved are 
the shares of UOB. As at 31 December 2020, the number of outstanding 
grants of Restricted Shares was 297,125, the remaining contractual period 
of 1~3 years. As at 31 December 2020, the number of outstanding grants of 
Share Appreciation Rights was zero.Investment income(368,039,062)(431,484,935)42. 股份支付(42) Share-based compensation plans1、 将净利润调节为经营活动的现金流量： 1.Reconciliation of net proﬁt to cash ﬂows from operating activities：Net proﬁtCredit impairment lossFixed assets depreciation20202019108,731,350124,363,947267,602,034141,313,82712,032,21412,202,572净利润信用减值损失固定资产折旧使用权资产折旧无形资产摊销投资收益汇兑损益Right-of-use assets depreciation74,486,60033,848,352Amortisation expenses for intangible assets23,474,31028,039,884长期待摊费用摊销Amortisation for long-term deferred expenses19,445,55518,663,380处置固定资产 / 其他长期资产损失Losses on disposal of ﬁxed assets and other long-term assets(3,991)110,890债券、同业存单及租赁负债利息支出Interest expenses of bond, negotiable certiﬁcates of deposit 
and lease liabilities124,603,814123,699,411公允价值变动净损益(Gain)/losses from changes in fair value7,351,276(168,226,620)Foreign exchange losses/(gain)(122,388,518)235,031,807递延所得税款 ( 增加 )/ 减少(Increase) /decrease in deferred tax assets/liabilities(75,126,417)7,946,499经营性应收项目的 ( 增加 )/ 减少(Increase)/decrease in operating receivables(692,141,067)3,686,623,434经营性应付项目的增加 /( 减少 )Increase/(decrease) in operating payables1,715,464,074(456,098,313)经营活动产生的现金流量净额Net cash ﬂows from operating activities1,095,492,1723,356,034,1352、 现金及现金等价物净变动情况：2. Net change in cash and cash equivalents：现金的年末余额Cash on hand at end of year4,163,6446,161,298减：现金的年初余额Less：Cash on hand at beginning of year6,161,2989,105,977加：现金等价物的年末余额Add： Cash equivalents at end of year10,575,973,32910,961,925,974减：现金等价物的年初余额Less：Cash equivalents at beginning of year10,961,925,97410,543,710,893现金及现金等价物净 ( 减少 )/ 增加额Net (decrease)/ increase in cash and cash equivalents(387,950,299)415,270,402142143财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2020 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2020
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)八、分部报告8. Segment Information1. 分部业绩、资产及负债(1) Segment proﬁt and loss, assets and liabilities本公司根据内部组织结构、管理要求及内部报告制度确定了公司银
行业务分部、零售银行业务分部、环球金融业务分部及其他业务及
未分配项目共 4 个报告分部。每个报告分部为单独的业务分部，提
供不同的产品和劳务。本公司管理层将会定期审阅不同分部的财务
信息以决定向其配置资源、评价业绩。本公司报告分部的主要业务如下：The Bank is organised into four different operating segments, namely 
wholesale  banking,  retail  banking,  global  markets,  and  others  and 
unallocated based on internal organisational structure, management 
requirement and internal reporting system. Every reporting segment, 
which is individual business segment, provides different products and 
services. Management periodically reviews the ﬁnancial information of the 
segments to determine resource allocation and performance assessment.The main businesses of the segments are as follows:批发银行业务分部
向各类企业提供包括贷款、贸易融资、存款服务、资金管理、外汇
买卖服务等金融服务。Wholesale Banking零售银行业务分部
向个人客户提供包括个人贷款、存款服务、银行卡服务、个人理财
服务和汇款等服务。环球金融业务分部
包括于银行间市场进行与资金业务相关的同业拆借交易、回购交易、
债务工具投资，以及外汇及贵金属产品、利率衍生产品的交易。其他业务及未分配项目分部
指不能直接归属上述某个分部或未能合理分配的资产、负债、收入
及支出。为了评价各个分部的业绩及向其配置资源，本公司管理层会定期审
阅归属于各分部资产、负债、收入、费用及经营成果，这些信息的
编制基础如下：分部资产主要包括归属于各分部的各项金融资产、有形资产、无形
资产和其他长期资产。分部负债包括归属于各分部的各项金融负债，
包括各项存款、拆入资金、各项应付款等。分部经营成果是指各个分部产生的收入（包括对外交易收入及分部
间的交易收入 )，扣除各个分部发生的直接费用（包括归属于各分部
的资产发生的折旧和摊销）、根据受益原则被分摊到的间接费用以
及资产减值损失。分部之间收入的转移定价按照与其他对外交易相
似的条款计算。The wholesale banking segment provides products and services such 
as  corporate  loans,  trade  financing,  deposit-taking  activities,  fund 
management, foreign exchange services, etc.Retail Banking
The retail banking segment provides products and services such as retail 
loans, deposit-taking activities, bank cards, wealth management and 
remittance services, etc.Global Markets (GM) 
The GM segment is responsible for conducting inter-bank placements, 
repurchase and reverse repurchase transactions and bond investments in 
the inter-bank market, and dealing foreign exchanges, precious metals and 
interest rate related derivatives, etc.Others and unallocated
This segment represents the assets, liabilities, income and expenses that 
are not directly attributable or cannot be allocated on a reasonable basis 
to any of the above segments.In  order  to  assess  the  performance  of  the  segments  and  allocate 
resources, management will periodically review the assets, liabilities, 
income, expenses and ﬁnancial performance of the segments, and such 
information is prepared on the following basis:Segment assets mainly include ﬁnancial assets, tangible assets, intangible 
assets and other long-term assets which are attributable to the segments, 
while segment liabilities mainly include deposits, borrowings and other 
payables which are attributable to the segments.Segment financial performance refers to income generated by each 
segment (including external and inter-segment income), deducted by 
direct cost (including depreciation and amortisation pertaining to the 
assets  allocated  to  the  segments),  indirect  cost  allocated  based  on 
occupation  of  resources  and  asset  impairment  losses.  Transactions 
between segments are priced at similar terms as external transactions.批发银行业务零售银行业务环球金融业务Wholesale 
BankingRetail BankingGM其他业务及未分
配项目
Others and 
unallocated2020合计Total一、营业收入1. Operating income913,379,785172,819,853189,649,200157,703,5251,433,552,363利息净收入Net interest income681,429,534107,654,6319,590,355192,945,441991,619,961其中：对外利息净收入Of which: External interest income674,283,529228,592,031358,793,546(270,049,145)991,619,961分部间利息净收入Internal interest income7,146,005(120,937,400)(349,203,191)462,994,586-手续费及佣金净收入Net fee and commission income126,705,22857,561,052(44,031,191)2,643,522142,878,611其他净收入Other net income105,245,0237,604,170224,090,036(37,885,438)299,053,791二、营业支出2.Operating expenses(644,232,881)(230,462,497)(119,968,927)(325,421,601)(1,320,085,906)其中：信用减值损失Of which: Credit impairment losses(210,272,500)10,983,609Net non-operating income/
(expenses)(399,921)(5,240,481)-1(68,313,143)(267,602,034)(611,875)(6,252,276)三、净营业外收支四、税前利润五、折旧与摊销费用六、资本支出七、资产总额八、负债总额3.4.5.6.Proﬁt before tax268,746,983(62,883,125)69,680,274(168,329,951)107,214,181Depreciation and amortisation19,995,81033,969,0881,767,41973,706,362129,438,679Capital expenditure463,375262,2131,718,96812,336,29114,780,8477.  Total assets8.Total liabilities34,976,961,0175,704,907,25339,461,051,278344,623,04280,487,542,59034,802,359,8843,108,556,23622,428,694,27513,092,260,05673,431,870,451批发银行业务零售银行业务环球金融业务Wholesale 
BankingRetail BankingGM其他业务及未分
配项目
Others and 
unallocated2019合计Total一、营业收入1. Operating income917,514,497144,724,904168,451,843129,872,9831,360,564,227利息净收入Net interest income650,439,29987,817,800(12,380,269)108,192,205834,069,035其中：对外利息净收入Of which: External interest income660,956,301217,937,402382,203,449(427,028,117)834,069,035分部间利息净收入Internal interest income(10,517,002)(130,119,602)(394,583,718)535,220,322-手续费及佣金净收入Net fee and commission income173,185,71645,477,227(59,462,084)12,708,592171,909,451其他净收入Other net income93,889,48211,429,877240,294,1968,972,186354,585,741二、营业支出2.Operating expenses(477,490,856)(266,346,668)(108,598,488)(371,913,969)(1,224,349,981)其中：信用减值损失Of which: Credit impairment losses(27,360,896)1,597,871(1,209,072)(114,341,730)(141,313,827)三、净营业外收支四、税前利润五、折旧与摊销费用六、资本支出七、资产总额八、负债总额3.4.5.Net non-operating income/
(expenses)(10,319)(4,877)320,033209,609514,446Proﬁt before tax440,013,322(121,626,641)60,173,388(241,831,377)136,728,692Depreciation and amortisation14,996,64129,167,2311,720,60846,869,70892,754,1886. Capital expenditure1,254,6129,313,0522,667,52726,032,74339,267,9347.  Total assets8. Total liabilities31,562,710,2426,822,552,63033,189,731,010281,294,53571,856,288,41736,322,324,0293,457,602,72613,791,163,02411,300,334,83664,871,424,615144145财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2020 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2020
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)2. 其他信息(1)  地理信息(2) Other information(1)  External operation income by geography对外营业收入是按照客户所在地为基础分配至相应的国家或地区，
本公司按不同地区列示的有关取得的对外营业收入 /（支出）的信
息如下：External operation income is distributed to respective countries and 
regions by their geography locations. The external operation income/
(expense) which divided by different geography locations is shown as 
follows:对外营业收入 /（支出）External operation income/(expense)境内境外合计DomesticOverseasTotal于资产负债表日，本公司没有中国境外的非流动资产。(2) 主要客户信息在以摊余成本计量的贷款中，本公司来源于年末十大企业贷款客
户的利息收入为人民币人民币 2.00 亿元（2019 年度：人民币 1.68
亿元），占本公司贷款利息收入的 12%（2019 年度：11%）。20202,177,115,078(743,562,715)1,433,552,36320192,323,841,125(963,276,898)1,360,564,227The Bank does not have any non-current asset held outside Mainland 
China as at the balance sheet date.(2)  Major customers' informationAmong loans and advances to customers measured at amortised cost, 
interest income of the Bank amounting to RMB200 million comes 
from top 10 largest corporate loan customers (2019: RMB168 million), 
which contributed 12 per cent of the total interest income for the 
year (2019:11 per cent).九、承诺及或有负债9. Commitments and contingent liabilities1. 财务承诺资本性支出承诺已批准但未签约已签约但未拨付合计2. 信贷承诺财务担保合同：银行承兑汇票保函款项备用信用证开出即期信用证开出远期信用证小计(1) Commitments(2) Credit commitmentsCapital commitmentsApproved but not contractedContracted but not provided forTotalFinancial guarantee contracts:Banker's acceptanceLetter of guaranteeStandby letter of creditLetter of credit, at sightLetter of credit, usanceSub-total不可撤销的贷款承诺：Irrevocable loan commitments with original maturity of:原到期日在 1 年或以上More than one year小计合计Sub-totalTotal31-12-2020-8,019,2828,019,28231-12-201933,7884,112,8484,146,63631-12-202031-12-20191,536,186,4711,077,626,3325,530,545,339346,850,487693,611,228955,060,1981,055,760,7825,673,456,735470,790,885913,714,8889,184,819,8579,068,783,4882,285,556,6792,285,556,6792,465,109,6122,465,109,61211,470,376,53611,533,893,100信贷承诺的信贷风险加权金额Weighted credit risk of credit commitments4,764,764,6034,239,864,309财务担保合同具有担保性质，一旦客户未按其与受益人签订的合同
偿还债务或履行约定义务时，银行需履行担保责任。贷款承诺是指本公司作出的在未来为客户提供约定数额贷款的承诺。
贷款承诺一般附有有效期或终止条款，可能在到期前无需履行，故
合同约定的贷款承诺总金额并不一定代表未来的预期现金流出。Financial guarantee contracts, with the nature of guarantee, require the 
Bank to be obliged to fulﬁl the customers' responsibility as guarantor in 
case that the customers fail to repay the contracted amount or fail to 
fulﬁl their obligations.Loan  commitments  represent  the  commitment  made  by  the  Bank 
to its customer to grant a certain amount of loan in the future. Loan 
commitments are normally attached with an effective date or termination 
clause,  and  it  is  possible  that  the  Bank  may  not  need  to  fulfil  such 
commitment  on  the  maturity  date.  Hence,  the  amount  of  the  loan 
commitments does not necessarily represent the future expected cash 
outﬂow.146147财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2020 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2020
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)3. 受托业务委托资金委托贷款Entrusted depositsEntrusted loans委托理财资金委托理财资产Entrusted fundEntrusted asset31-12-20202,448,862,0872,448,862,08731-12-20201,679,654,3451,679,654,34531-12-20192,212,509,2702,212,509,27031-12-20191,760,126,7531,760,126,753(3) Entrusted Business十、资本管理10. Capital Management委托资金是指存款者存于本公司的款项，仅用于向存款者指定的第三
方发放贷款之用。贷款相关的信贷风险由资金委托人承担。Entrusted deposits represent funds from depositors, which depositors 
have instructed the Bank to grant loans to third parties designated by 
them. The credit risk remains with the depositors.委托理财业务是指本公司按照与客户事先约定的投资计划和方式，以
客户支付的本金进行投资和资产管理，投资收益由本公司代为收取，
根据约定条件和实际投资收益向客户支付收益的业务。4. 或有负债Entrusted  wealth  management  business  is  the  investment  product 
according to the agreed investing plan with the clients. The investment 
principal is paid by the customers, which would be managed by the Bank. 
The Bank would receive the investment proﬁt on behalf of the customers 
and pay the proﬁt to the customers based on the agreed conditions.据管理层意见，于 2020 年底，本公司除附注七、22 信贷承诺及财务
担保披露的或有负债外，并无其他或有负债。(4) Contingent liabilitiesAs at 31 December 2020, according to the management, there was no 
other contingent liabilities except for items that have been disclosed in 
Note 7.22.148本公司采用足够能够防范本公司经营业务的固有风险的资本管理办
法，并且对于资本的管理符合监管当局的要求。本公司资本管理的
目标除了符合监管当局的要求之外，还必须保持能够保障经营的资
本充足率和使股东权益最大化。视乎经济环境的变化和面临的风险
特征，本公司将积极调整资本结构。The Bank has adopted a strong capital management method to mitigate the 
inherent risk in the business operation and complied with the requirements 
of regulatory authorities on capital management. The Bank also targets to 
maintain sufficient capital adequacy ratio for operations and optimising 
shareholders' value. The Bank may adjust its capital structure actively to adapt 
with the change of economic environment and related risk characteristics.本公司按照《商业银行资本管理办法（试行）》的规定，进行资本
充足率信息披露工作并持续完善信息披露内容。银保监会要求商业
银行核心一级资本充足率不得低于 5%，一级资本充足率不得低于 6%，
资本充足率不得低于 8%, 储备资本达到 2.5%。本公司财务部负责对资本项目进行管理。核心一级资本包括实收资
本、资本公积可计入部分、其他综合收益可计入部分、盈余公积、
一般风险准备和未分配利润；本公司无其他一级资本；二级资本主
要包括二级资本工具及其溢价可计入金额和超额贷款减值准备。本公司按照《商业银行资本管理办法（试行）》的规定，计算的资
本充足率情况如下：The Bank calculates and discloses capital adequacy ratio according to Regulations 
Governing Capital of Commercial Banks (Provisional). CBIRC requires that a 
commercial bank's core tier-one capital adequacy ratio, tier-one capital adequacy 
ratio and capital adequacy ratio should not be lower than ﬁve per cent, six per 
cent, and eight per cent respectively, and reserve capital ratio should reach 2.5 per 
cent.The Finance Department is responsible for managing the capital of the Bank. 
Core tier-one capital includes paid-up capital, qualified capital reserve, 
qualiﬁed other comprehensive income, surplus reserves, general reserves and 
retained earnings. The Bank has no other tier-one capital. Tier-two capital 
mainly includes surplus provision for loan impairment, qualified Tier-two 
capital instruments and their premium.The capital adequacy ratios calculated by the Bank in accordance with 
Regulations Governing Capital of Commercial Banks (Provisional) are as 
follows:核心一级资本实收资本资本公积可计入部分其他综合收益可计入部分盈余公积一般风险准备未分配利润Core tier-one capitalPaid-up capitalQualiﬁed capital reserveQualiﬁed other comprehensive incomeSurplus reservesGeneral reservesRetained earnings核心一级资本扣除项目Core tier-one capital deductions其他无形资产核心一级资本净额一级资本净额二级资本Other intangible assetsNet core tier-one capitalNet tier-one capitalTier-two capital二级资本工具及其溢价可计入金额Qualiﬁed tier-two capital instruments and their premium超额贷款减值准备Surplus provision for loan impairment总资本净额风险加权资产Net capitalRisk-weighted assets其中：信用风险加权资产Of which: Credit risk-weighted assets市场风险加权资产操作风险加权资产核心一级资本充足率一级资本充足率资本充足率Market risk-weighted assetsOperational risk-weighted assetsCore tier-one capital adequacy ratioTier-one capital adequacy ratioCapital adequacy ratio31-12-20207,055,672,1395,500,000,00017,337,0492,191,618138,385,488849,267,920548,490,06481,570,41481,570,4146,974,101,7256,974,101,7251,557,825,490997,629,000560,196,4908,531,927,21552,065,065,80445,375,915,6704,203,269,5712,485,880,56313.4%13.4%16.4%31-12-20196,984,863,8025,500,000,00014,562,83042,888,850127,512,353816,675,492483,224,277102,639,668102,639,6686,882,224,1346,882,224,1341,538,173,594997,076,364541,097,2308,420,397,72851,044,400,21743,828,875,6404,881,780,5772,333,744,00013.5%13.5%16.5%149十一、金融风险管理金融工具风险11. Financial Risk ManagementRisk of Financial Instruments本公司在日常活动中面临各种金融工具的风险，主要包括是信用风险、
流动性风险及市场风险 ( 包括汇率风险、利率风险、商品风险 )。本公
司的主要金融工具包括货币资金、存放中央银行款项、存放同业款项、
拆出资金、衍生金融资产、买入返售金融资产、发放贷款和垫款、其
他债权投资等。与这些金融工具相关的风险，以及本公司为降低这些
风险所采取的风险管理策略如下所述。本公司的金融工具导致的主要风险是信用风险、流动性风险及市场风
险。本公司对此的风险管理政策概述如下。The Bank is exposed to different types of risks. The most signiﬁcant types of 
risk related to ﬁnancial instruments are credit risk, liquidity risk and market 
risk (including foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and commodity risk). 
The Bank's ﬁnancial instruments mainly include cash, deposit with the Central 
Bank, due from banks and other ﬁnancial institutions, placements with banks 
and other ﬁnancial institutions, derivative ﬁnancial assets, reverse repurchase 
ﬁnancial assets, Loans and advances to customers, other debt instrument at 
fair value through other comprehensive income, and etc. These risks and the 
Banks strategy to minimize the negative impacts of the underlying ﬁnancial 
risks are described below.The most signiﬁcant types of risks to the Bank are credit risk, liquidity risk and 
market risk. The Bank's risk management strategy is outlined below.财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2020 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2020
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)本公司的资本充足率及相关数据是以按中国会计准则编制的法定财
务报表为基础进行计算的。本年度，本公司遵守了监管部门规定的
资本要求。此外，本公司根据中国银保监会颁布的《商业银行杠杆率管理办法》
（银监会令 2011 年第 3 号）计算并披露杠杆率信息。截止 2020 年 12
月 31 日，本公司的杠杆率为 7.0%，符合最低 4.0% 的法规要求，相关
信息如下：The capital adequacy ratios and related components of the Bank are 
calculated based on the statutory financial statements prepared under the 
Chinese Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises. During the period, the 
Bank has complied with the capital requirements imposed by the regulator.In addition, the Bank calculates and discloses leverage ratio according to 
Regulations Governing Leverage Ratio of Commercial Banks (CBIRC Ordinance 
[2011] No. 3). As at 31 December 2020, the Bank's leverage ratio was 7.0 per cent 
which was higher than the minimum regulatory requirement of 4.0 per cent. 
The relevant information is as follows:核心一级资本Core tier-one capital31-12-202031-12-20197,055,672,1396,984,863,8021. 信用风险1.1 信用风险管理减：核心一级资本扣除项目Less: Core tier-one capital deductions(81,570,414)(102,639,668)核心一级资本净额Net core tier-one capital6,974,101,7256,882,224,134调整后表内资产余额Adjusted on balance sheet items66,567,475,83564,373,330,860调整后表外项目余额Adjusted off balance sheet items12,592,163,04611,896,614,965衍生产品资产余额Balance of derivatives18,014,024,0009,558,746,200证券融资交易资产余额Balance of assets in securities ﬁnancing transactions2,346,723,7003,327,016,400合计杠杆率TotalLeverage ratio99,520,386,58189,155,708,4257.0%7.7%信用风险是债务人或交易对手违约的风险，主要指银行的借款人
或交易对手不能按事先达成的协议履行其义务的潜在可能性。本
公司的信用风险主要来自于发放贷款和垫款，表外项目的信用风
险主要来自于开出信用证、各项担保款项和贷款承诺。(1) Credit risk(1.1) Credit risk management信用风险的集中程度：当一定数量的客户在进行相同的经营活动
时，或处于相同的地理位置上或其行业具有相似的经济特性使其
履行合约的能力会受到同一经济变化的影响。信用风险的集中程
度反映了银行业绩对某一特定行业或地理位置的敏感程度。本公司严格的授信前审查制度、授权审批制度和贷后的跟踪和
上报机制有效地降低和防范了信用风险。本公司定期对客户的
经营状况进行检查，对贷款质量进行分析并提取充足的贷款损
失准备金。财务担保及贷款承诺产生的风险在实质上与贷款和垫款的风险相
似。因此，该类交易的申请、贷后管理以及抵质押担保要求等需
要与贷款和垫款业务相同。Credit risk is the risk of loss arising from a borrower's or counterparty's 
inability  to  meet  its  obligations  as  and  when  they  fall  due.  The 
Bank's credit risk exposure mainly arises from loans and advances to 
customers. Credit risk of off balance sheet items mainly arises from 
the letters of credit/guarantees issued as well as loan commitments.Credit  risk  concentration  refers  to  the  situation  whereby  there 
is  a  concentration  of  customers  in  the  same  business  activities, 
geographical  location,  or  industry  sector  with  similar  economic 
characteristics such that their repayment ability would be affected by 
the same economic ﬂuctuations. Credit risk concentration reﬂects the 
sensitivity of the Bank's performance to such customer concentration.The Bank establishes a comprehensive set of policies and procedures 
which effectively mitigate and control credit risk. The procedures 
cover credit evaluation, credit approval, credit monitoring as well 
as reporting.  The Bank reviews the borrowers' business operations 
periodically, analyses the quality of credit portfolio and ensures 
adequacy of loan loss provisions.The risk from ﬁnancial guarantee and loan commitments is similar with 
that from loans and advances to customers. Hence, the Bank adopts 
the same policies and procedures for managing credit contingencies 
which  cover  application,  follow-up  monitoring  and  collateral 
requirements, etc.150151财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2020 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2020
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)根据信用风险是否发生显著增加以及是否已发生信用减值，本公
司对不同的资产分别以 12 个月或整个存续期的预期信用损失计量
减值准备。预期信用损失计量的关键参数包括违约概率、违约损
失率和违约风险敞口。本公司考虑历史统计数据 ( 如交易对手评级、
担保方式及抵质押物类别、还款方式等 ) 的定量分析及前瞻性信息，
建立违约概率、违约损失率及违约风险敞口模型。相关定义如下：•  违约概率是指债务人在未来 12 个月或在整个剩余存续期，无法
履行其偿付义务的可能性。本公司的违约概率以信贷周期指数
Z 值为基础进行调整，加入前瞻性信息，以反映当前宏观经济
环境下债务人违约概率；•  违约损失率是指本公司对违约风险暴露发生损失程度作出的预
期。根据交易对手的类型、追索的方式和优先级，以及担保品
的不同，违约损失率也有所不同。违约损失率为违约发生时风
险敞口损失的百分比；•  违约风险敞口是指，在未来 12 个月或在整个剩余存续期中，在违约发生时，本公司应被偿付的金额。信用风险显著增加的评估及预期信用损失的计算均涉及前瞻性信
息。本公司通过进行历史数据分析，识别出影响各行业、各业务
类型信用风险及预期信用损失的关键经济指标。这些经济指标对违约概率和违约损失率的影响，对不同的行业、
业务类型有所不同。本公司在此过程中应用了宏观数据及专家判
断开展分析，形成预测模型以及分析范式，每年定期获取新的输
入数据，并按照规范考量专家建议，将前瞻性因素作用于违约概
率和违约损失率的计算过程中。Depending on whether the credit risk has significantly increased 
and whether the asset is credit-impaired, the Bank measures the 
impairment provision for different assets with expected credit loss of 
12 months or lifetime, respectively. The key parameters of expected 
credit  loss  measurement  include  probability  of  default(PD),  loss 
given default(LGD) and exposure at default(EAD). The Bank takes into 
account the quantitative analysis of historical statistics (such as ratings 
of counterparties, manners of guarantees and types of collaterals, 
repayments, etc.) and forward-looking information in order to establish 
the models for estimating PD, LGD and EAD.Relative deﬁnitions are listed as below:•  The probability of default refers to the possibility that the debtor 
will not be able to fulﬁl its obligation of repayment in the next 12 
months or the whole remaining lifetime. The Bank's PD is adjusted 
based on the credit cycle index Z and forward-looking information 
to reﬂect the default probability of the debtor under the current 
macroeconomic environment;•  The loss given default refers to the Bank's expectation of the extent 
of the loss resulting from the default exposure. Depending on the 
type of counterparty, the method and priority of the recourse, and 
the type of collaterals, the LGD varies. The loss given default is the 
percentage of risk exposure loss when default occurs;•  The exposure at default is the amount that the Bank should be 
reimbursed in the next 12 months or throughout the remaining 
lifetime when the default occurs.The  assessment  of  significant  increases  in  credit  risk  and  the 
calculation of expected credit losses both involve forward-looking 
information. Through the analysis of historical data, the Bank identiﬁes 
the key macroeconomic indicators that affect the credit risk and 
expected credit loss of various industries and business types.The impact of these economic indicators on probability of default and 
loss given default varies according to different types of industries and 
business types. The Bank applies experts' judgement in this analysis, 
according to the result of experts' judgement, the Bank predicts these 
economic indicators on a quarterly basis and determines the impact of 
these economic indicators on the probability of default and the loss 
given default by conducting regression analysis.于资产负债表日，不考虑任何担保物及其他信用增级措施的最大信
用风险敞口详情如下：As at the balance sheet date, the maximum credit risk exposure of 
the Bank without taking into consideration of collateral and other risk 
mitigation are set out below:存放中央银行款项Deposits with the Central Bank贵金属存放同业款项拆出资金交易性金融资产衍生金融资产买入返售金融资产发放贷款和垫款其他债权投资其他金融资产合计Precious metalsDue from banks and other ﬁnancial institutionsPlacements with banks and other ﬁnancial institutionsFinancial assets held-for-tradingDerivative ﬁnancial assetsReverse repurchase ﬁnancial assetsLoans and advances to customersOther debt instrument at fair value through other 
comprehensive incomeOther ﬁnancial assetsTotal31-12-20204,689,429,6701,564,487,5853,680,713,1656,667,892,6481,525,241,84411,567,136,3412,273,636,71431-12-20196,471,381,9521,162,708,3441,852,438,9027,499,846,2221,425,658,3774,133,777,8893,253,748,36136,186,036,12735,144,414,61211,029,276,74410,145,887,936651,812,768323,164,55379,835,663,60671,413,027,148信贷承诺信用风险敞口（附注九、2） Credit commitments (Note 9.2)11,470,376,53611,533,893,100最大信用风险敞口Maximum credit risk exposure91,306,040,14282,946,920,2481.2 风险集中度(1.2) Risk concentration如交易对手集中于某一行业或地区，或共同具备某些经济特性，
其信用风险通常会相应提高。此外，不同行业和地区的经济发展
均有其独特的特点，因此不同的行业和地区的信用风险亦不相同。本公司主要为境内客户提供贷款及财务担保合同。本公司发放贷
款和垫款的行业集中度详情，请参看附注七、7.2。The  concentration  of  borrowers/counterparties  in  the  same 
industry sector, geographical location or having similar economic 
characteristics would tend to pose higher credit risk to the Bank. 
On the other hand, the level of credit risk may be varied from each 
industry or geographical location in view of their unique economic 
development characteristics.The Bank mainly provides loans and commitments/guarantees to 
domestic customers. Analysis on industry sector concentration for the 
Bank's loans and advances can be found at Note 7. 7.2.152153财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2020 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2020
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)1.3 担保物(1.3) Collateral本公司根据交易对手的信用风险评估决定所需的担保物金额及类
型。本公司对接受担保物建立了相关的指南，包括对担保物评估
频度作了明确的要求。The amount and type of the collateral required would depend on the 
credit risk of the borrowers/counterparties as assessed by the Bank. 
The Bank has established a guideline on taking collateral including the 
frequency of collateral valuation.抵押物主要有以下几种类型 :• 对于商业贷款，担保物主要为现金及存款、银行担保或房地产；
• 对于个人贷款，担保物为居民住宅。管理层要求业务相关部门监测担保物的市场价值并根据相关协议
要求追加抵押物，并在进行损失准备的充足性审查时充分考虑担
保物的市价变化。1.4 信用质量本公司各项金融资产（未扣除减值准备）的信用质量分析如下：The main types of collateral include:• For corporate and commercial loans, main collaterals taken includecash deposits, bank guarantee and properties; and• For personal loans, collateral taken are mainly residential properties.The management requires relevant Business Units to monitor the 
market value of the collaterals and follow up with the borrowers/
counterparties to top up collaterals in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of the loan agreement. The change in market value of the 
collateral would also be taken into consideration when reviewing the 
adequacy of loan loss provisions.(1.4) Credit qualityThe credit quality of ﬁnancial assets of the Bank (excluding provisions) 
is analysed as follows:既未逾期也未减值
Neither overdue nor 
impaired已逾期但未减值
Overdue but not 
impaired已减值Impaired现金及存放中央银行款项 Cash and deposit with the Central Bank贵金属Precious metals4,694,079,4301,564,487,585存放同业款项Due from banks and other ﬁnancial institutions3,696,381,992拆出资金Placements with banks and other ﬁnancial institutions6,677,516,824交易性金融资产Financial assets held-for-trading衍生金融资产Derivative ﬁnancial assets买入返售金融资产Reverse repurchase ﬁnancial assets1,525,241,84411,567,136,3412,273,841,680--------------31-12-2020合计Total4,694,079,4301,564,487,5853,696,381,9926,677,516,8241,525,241,84411,567,136,3412,273,841,680发放贷款和垫款Loans and advances to customers36,917,752,3567,606,485131,062,48537,056,421,326其他债权投资其他金融资产合计Other debt instrument at fair value through other 
comprehensive incomeOther ﬁnancial assetsTotal11,029,276,744651,812,768----11,029,276,744651,812,76880,597,527,5647,606,485131,062,48580,736,196,534既未逾期也未减值
Neither overdue nor 
impaired已逾期但未减值
Overdue but not 
impaired已减值Impaired现金及存放中央银行款项 Cash and deposit with the Central Bank贵金属Precious metals6,478,213,2271,162,708,344存放同业款项Due from banks and other ﬁnancial institutions1,858,694,126拆出资金Placements  with  banks  and  other  financial 
institutions交易性金融资产Financial assets held-for-trading衍生金融资产Derivative ﬁnancial assets买入返售金融资产Reverse repurchase ﬁnancial assets7,510,856,7981,425,658,3774,133,777,8893,254,101,612--------------31-12-2019合计Total6,478,213,2271,162,708,3441,858,694,1267,510,856,7981,425,658,3774,133,777,8893,254,101,612发放贷款和垫款Loans and advances to customers35,700,541,353600,783224,011,30835,925,153,444其他债权投资Other debt instrument at fair value through other 
comprehensive income其他金融资产Other ﬁnancial assets10,145,887,936323,164,553----10,145,887,936323,164,553合计Total71,993,604,215600,783224,011,30872,218,216,306既未逾期也未减值的发放贷款及垫款Loans and advances that are neither overdue nor impaired下表按担保方式列示于资产负债表日既未逾期也未减值的贷款：The composition of loans that are neither overdue nor impaired by collateral 
arrangement as at the balance sheet date is as follows:信用贷款保证贷款抵押贷款质押贷款合计Unsecured loansLoans secured by guaranteesLoans secured by mortgageLoans secured by pledgesTotal31-12-20206,153,734,8276,039,519,46918,989,322,1835,735,175,87736,917,752,35631-12-20194,911,545,8346,554,023,91619,709,763,1424,525,208,46135,700,541,353154155财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2020 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2020
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)已逾期但未减值的发放贷款及垫款Loans and advances that are overdue but not impaired2. 流动性风险(2) Liquidity risk于资产负债表日，已逾期但未减值的发放贷款及垫款账龄分析如下：Aging analysis of loans that are overdue but not impaired as at the balance 
sheet date is as follows:1 个月以内1 个月到 2 个月2 个月到 3 个月3 个月以上Within 1 month1 to 2 months2 to 3 monthsMore than 3months31-12-2020合计Total所持有担保物
公允价值
Fair value of collaterals贷款及垫款 Loans and advances to customers164,6527,397,05944,774- 7,606,485173,484,2001 个月以内1 个月到 2 个月2 个月到 3 个月3 个月以上Within 1 month1 to 2 months2 to 3 monthsMore than 3months31-12-2019合计Total所持有担保物
公允价值
Fair value of collaterals贷款及垫款 Loans and advances to customers403,445197,338--600,783121,947,000已减值的发放贷款及垫款Impaired loans and advances如果有客观证据表明发放贷款及垫款在初始确认后有一项或多项负面
情况发生，且该情况对贷款预计未来现金流量有影响且该影响能可靠
估计，则该发放贷款及垫款被认为是已减值贷款。这些贷款会被评定
为“次级”、“可疑”或“损失”类。于资产负债表日，本公司持有的已减值贷款的账面价值及涵盖减值贷
款的担保物的公允价值列示如下：Where there are objective evidences that a single or multiple negative events 
have occurred after the initial recognition of the loans and the impact from 
the events on the expected future cash flows can be estimated reliably, 
the relevant loans should be recognised as impaired loans. These loans are 
classiﬁed as "Substandard" , "Doubtful"  or "Loss" .As at the balance sheet date, the carry amount of impaired loans and the fair 
value of collateral of impaired loans held by the Bank are as follows:减值贷款- 次级- 可疑- 损失合计Impaired loans-Substandard-Doubtful-LossTotal减值贷款的担保物The collateral value of impaired loans上述抵押物的公允价值为本公司根据目前抵押物处置经验和市场状况
对最新可得的外部评估价值进行调整的基础上确定。经重组的发放贷款及垫款本公司为了最大可能地回收贷款及管理客户关系，设立了贷款重组政
策，即与客户重新商定合同条款。于资产负债表日，本公司并未发生此类业务。31-12-202031-12-201938,498,66392,563,822-131,062,485192,551,730224,011,308--224,011,308357,376,740The  fair  value  of  collateral  that  the  Bank  holds  is  determined  from 
the  latest  external  valuation  with  necessary  adjustment  made  after 
considering the Bank's own experience in collateral disposal as well as the 
current market conditions.Restructured loans and advancesThe Bank has formulated a set of loan restructuring policies to renegotiate 
the contractual terms with customers in order to maximise the recovery 
of impaired loans as well as to manage customer relationships.No transactions were conducted by the Bank as at the balance sheet date.本公司保持充足的流动性以保障银行日常运营的开展，满足存款的
提款和贷款的发放，投资新项目以及支付到期的借款。因此，流动
性管理的主旨在于应付银行确定的及不可确定的资金需求。本公司流动性风险管理是在完整的风险管理框架下进行的，包含经
由资产负债委员会批准的各项政策、控制流程、风险限额。这些政策、
控制流程及风险限额确保本公司在不同的市场环境下有充足的资金
以应对流动性需求。这些措施包括通过多样化资金的来源及其期限
将资金集中度降至最小，以及持有高流动性债券。本公司在流动性风险管理方面采取保守立场，持续的吸收核心存款，
严格遵守流动性风险额度，保留充足的流动资产等措施来防范可能
出现的资金短缺。本公司通过主动分散存款的来源，以保持成本效率的均衡，资金的
持续可获得以及资金来源的多样化。通过竞争性定价管理银行的核
心存款以及维护客户的信心。本公司通过预测银行现金流来度量和管理流动性风险，现金流的预
测是基于“正常业务情景”和“压力情景”来进行。本公司设置现金流
错配限额来控制银行流动性风险敞口的同时，还采用流动性早期预
警指标和警戒线以揭示可能出现的危机状况。本公司在建立的流动
性应急计划中运用一系列的预警指标揭示可能发生的流动性危机。
在该应急计划中，本公司通过设立危机上报流程及包括融资、沟通
等危机处理策略来减少流动性危机所带来的负面影响。The Bank maintains sufficient liquidity to fund day-to-day operations, 
to meet deposit withdrawals and loan disbursements, to participate in 
new investments, and to repay borrowings. Hence, liquidity is managed 
in a manner to address both anticipated and unanticipated cash funding 
needs.Liquidity risk is managed in accordance with a complete framework of 
risk management, including-policies, controls and limits approved by the 
Asset and Liability Committee (ALCO). These policies, controls and limits 
are established to ensure that the Bank has sufﬁcient funding to manage 
liquidity risk over a range of market conditions. These include minimising 
excessive funding concentrations by diversifying the sources and terms 
of funding as well as maintaining a portfolio of debt securities with high 
quality and good liquidity.The  Bank  takes  a  conservative  stance  in  liquidity  management  by 
continuing to gather core deposits, strictly complying with liquidity 
limits and retaining adequate liquid assets to prevent any possible cash 
shortfall.The Bank actively dispersed the sources of deposits to maintain a balance 
of cost efﬁciency, continued availability of funds and diversiﬁcation of 
funding sources. Important factors in ensuring liquidity are competitive 
pricing, proactive management of the Bank's core deposits and the 
maintenance of customer conﬁdence.Liquidity risk is measured and managed on projected cash ﬂow basis. Cash 
flow projection is monitored under both business-as-usual and stress 
scenarios. Cash ﬂow mismatch limits are established to limit the Bank's 
liquidity exposure. The Bank has also employed liquidity early warning 
indicators and trigger points to signal possible contingency situations. 
Contingency  funding  plans  have  been  set  up  to  identify  potential 
liquidity crises by using a series of warning indicators. Crisis management 
processes and various strategies including funding and communication 
have been developed to minimise the negative impact of any liquidity 
crunch.156157财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2020 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2020
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)于 2020 年 12 月 31 日，本公司的金融资产及金融负债未经折现的到
期日分析如下：The Bank's undiscounted maturity proﬁle of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities 
as at 31 December 2020 is as follows:逾期 / 即时偿还
Overdue / On demand1 个月内
Within 1 month1 至 3 个月
1 to 3 months3 个月至 1 年
3 months to 1 year1 至 5 年
1 to 5 years5 年以上
5 years above无期限
undated31-12-2020合计
TotalDue from banks and other ﬁnancial institutions3,431,281,578249,801,368Placements with banks and other ﬁnancial institutions518,540,819-------2,771,892,86027,499,0132,512,668,6572,274,796,605------3,202,094,178713,468,405----1,341,452,6183,955,850153,736,650-----2,655,523,9635,339,319,5821,019,455,34740,168,792----4,175,052,4954,693,593,3141,564,487,5851,564,487,585-----3,681,082,9466,687,455,4431,526,644,13111,567,136,3412,274,796,605发放贷款和垫款Loans and advances to customers69,563,8452,279,563,4046,455,861,09511,872,364,40113,697,928,8455,904,135,930691,168,18440,970,585,704Other debt instrument at fair value through other comprehensive income-877,134,6582,017,982,5032,599,037,4895,950,201,613490,659626,837,427-24,484,682-4,019,876,90111,620,193,99215,672,914,35720,552,630,40920,821,322,4555,944,304,7226,430,708,26485,061,951,100同业及其他金融机构存放款项Due to banks and other ﬁnancial institutions1,483,935,560--141,289,588-金融资产：Financial assets:现金及存放中央银行款项Cash and deposits with the Central BankPrecious metals交易性金融资产Financial assets held-for-trading衍生金融资产Derivative ﬁnancial assets买入返售金融资产Reverse repurchase ﬁnancial assets贵金属存放同业款项拆出资金其他债权投资其他金融资产金融资产合计金融负债：Other ﬁnancial assetsTotal ﬁnancial assetsFinancial liabilities:拆入资金衍生金融负债吸收存款Placements from banks and other ﬁnancial institutionsDerivative ﬁnancial liabilitiesCustomer deposits交易性金融负债Financial liabilities held-for-trading卖出回购金融资产款Repurchase agreementsDebt securities issuedOther ﬁnancial liabilitiesTotal ﬁnancial liabilitiesNet liquidityCommitments应付债券其他金融负债金融负债合计流动性净额表外承诺事项158----11,444,356,263651,812,768------------------1,625,225,14816,770,540,80811,611,363,62536,606,170,0793,646,610,729466,204,4942,238,409,464583,203,49973,547,727,846--2,806,851,7002,368,653,9473,780,610,9237,968,531,2982,214,546,8872,742,812,9225,455,785,1471,044,111,60914,260,807,2759,691,577,5304,631,171,5107,313,839,857708,773,907----135,099,950466,204,494-6,015,3983,113,998,496397,512,283------1,097,204,7881,141,204,676577,188,101-15,744,742,83515,474,403,01914,268,593,85122,951,351,0625,108,637,079(11,724,865,934)(3,854,209,027)1,404,320,506(2,398,720,653)15,712,685,3765,944,304,7226,430,708,26411,514,223,254201,514,622654,259,6561,978,162,8705,566,541,9373,069,897,451--11,470,376,536159财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2020 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2020
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)于 2019 年 12 月 31 日，本公司的金融资产及金融负债未经折现的到
期日分析如下：The Bank's undiscounted maturity proﬁle of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities 
as at 31 December 2019 is as follows:逾期 / 即时偿还
Overdue / On demand1 个月内
Within 1 month1 至 3 个月
1 to 3 months3 个月至 1 年
3 months to 1 year1 至 5 年
1 to 5 years5 年以上
5 years above无期限
undated31-12-2019合计
Total金融资产：Financial assets:现金及存放中央银行款项Cash and deposits with the Central BankPrecious metals贵金属存放同业款项拆出资金Placements with banks and other ﬁnancial institutions交易性金融资产Financial assets held-for-trading衍生金融资产Derivative ﬁnancial assets买入返售金融资产Reverse repurchase ﬁnancial assetsDue from banks and other ﬁnancial institutions1,552,989,196199,792,034100,472,2671,577,423,039---------3,924,750,142476,462,8333,139,323,125-1,034,932,688391,475,300988,461,4333,055,946,729995,209,0631,288,977,060835,352,33325,778,000201,034,457----------------发放贷款和垫款Loans and advances to customers140,092,1601,954,864,5195,223,671,79310,989,640,18914,757,226,9177,921,519,306同业及其他金融机构存放款项Due to banks and other ﬁnancial institutions71,124,511-138,345,373289,276,944-4,900,120,2116,477,543,2501,162,708,3441,162,708,344--------1,853,253,4977,540,536,1001,426,407,9884,133,777,8893,256,981,18640,987,014,88410,609,368,946323,164,553---------498,746,82813,703,842,3794,137,215,59039,610,430,1753,183,795,542720,464,6463,043,889,018335,476,25065,233,860,428其他债权投资其他金融资产金融资产合计金融负债：Other debt instrument at fair value through other comprehensive incomeOther ﬁnancial assetsTotal ﬁnancial assetsFinancial liabilities:拆入资金衍生金融负债吸收存款Placements from banks and other ﬁnancial institutionsDerivative ﬁnancial liabilitiesCustomer deposits交易性金融负债Financial liabilities held-for-trading卖出回购金融资产款Repurchase agreementsDebt securities issuedOther ﬁnancial liabilitiesTotal ﬁnancial liabilitiesNet liquidityCommitments应付债券其他金融负债金融负债合计流动性净额表外承诺事项160--1,008,846,904297,478,598862,541,6032,584,565,6236,153,414,816-25,685,955---3,270,504,39511,430,140,3598,894,324,70418,419,667,25221,745,994,0667,947,297,3066,062,828,55577,770,756,637--1,422,567,840881,324,6552,065,350,0838,001,377,5692,214,546,8871,146,502,4351,270,001,774820,256,54719,130,17912,432,302,22911,321,280,2687,342,800,8807,370,004,3201,144,042,478-----720,464,646-4,234,1433,183,795,542-------807,141,5902,236,747,428331,242,107------12,503,426,74014,349,871,55213,876,794,31318,069,044,3046,415,593,34019,130,179--(9,232,922,345)(2,919,731,193)(4,982,469,609)350,622,94815,330,400,7267,928,167,1276,062,828,55512,536,896,209102,429,967348,285,4111,703,089,5865,843,084,8233,537,003,313--11,533,893,100161财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2020 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2020
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)3. 市场风险(3) Market risk3.1 汇率风险(3.1) Currency risk本公司面临的市场风险主要来自利率、汇率产品和贵金属产品的敞口
头寸。本公司的交易性业务及非交易性业务均可产生市场风险。本公
司市场风险管理的目标是避免收入和权益由于市场风险产生的过度损
失，同时降低本公司受金融工具内在波动性风险的影响。本公司由风险管理部总览全行的市场风险敞口，并负责拟制相关市场
风险管理政策报送资产负债委员会批准，并定期将银行市场风险敞口
汇报给资产负债委员会和董事会风险管理委员会。本公司按照既定标准和当前管理能力监管市场风险，其主要的监管方
法包括敏感性分析、预期损失、风险价值、压力测试等。在新产品或
新业务上线前，该产品和业务中   的市场风险将按照规定予以辨识。The Bank is exposed to market risk mainly from open positions in interest 
rate, foreign exchange rate products and precious metal products. Market 
risk arises from both trading and non-trading business. The objective 
of market risk management is to avoid excessive losses in earnings and 
shareholder's fund due to market risk, and to minimise the negative impact 
from inherent volatility risks of ﬁnancial instruments.The Risk Management Division monitors the Bank's market risk exposure 
and is responsible for setting up market risk policies with approval by the 
Asset & Liability Committee. Market Risk exposures are reported to the 
Asset & Liability Committee and Board Risk Management Committee on a 
regular basis.本公司根据不同账户的各自特点将表内外资产负债划分为交易账户或
银行账户。交易账户主要包括因交易目的或者是为规避交易账户其他
项目风险而持有的可自由交易的金融工具和商品头寸。交易账户中的
市场风险取决于交易的工具，包括利率、汇率、股票价格、商品价格、
信贷利差等。银行账户包括除交易账户外的其他金融工具。银行账户
中的主要风险是利率和信贷利差风险。The  Bank  monitors  and  manages  market  risk  in  accordance  with 
established  framework and policies. The monitoring and measurement 
methods mainly include sensitivity analysis, Expected Shortfall (ES), Value-
at-Risk (VaR) and stress testing. Prior to launch of new product or new 
business, market risk will be properly identiﬁed and addressed.The Bank divides the balance sheet assets and liabilities into the trading 
book  or  banking  book  according  to  the  characteristics  of  different 
accounts.  Trading  book  mainly  includes  freely  tradable  financial 
instruments and commodity positions held for trading purpose or to 
avoid risks in other items of the trading account. The market risk in trading 
book depends on the tools of the transactions, including interest rates, 
foreign exchange rates, stock prices, commodity prices and credit spreads. 
Banking book includes ﬁnancial instruments other than trading book. The 
main risks in banking book are  interest rate and credit spread risks.主要是由于本公司资产和负债的货币错配以及外汇交易无法及时
规避风险敞口以至于暴露于市场波动而引起的风险。于 2020 年 12 月 31 日，本公司的有关资产及负债按币种列示如下 :The Bank's currency risk arises mainly from currency mismatches of 
assets and liabilities as well as foreign exchange trading business 
whereby the open positions are subject to exchange rate ﬂuctuations.As at 31 December 2020, the Bank's assets and liabilities by currency 
are as follows:美元
 USD
(RMB equivalent)人民币
RMB其他
 Others 
(RMB equivalent)31-12-2020合计      
 Total (RMB 
equivalent)资产：Assets:现金及存放中央银行款项Cash and deposit with the Central Bank871,083,4883,818,609,8573,899,9694,693,593,314贵金属存放同业款项拆出资金Precious metals-1,564,487,585-1,564,487,585Due from banks and other ﬁnancial institutions1,764,434,995807,997,9761,108,280,1943,680,713,165Placements with banks and other ﬁnancial institutions4,642,236,9561,958,942,52166,713,1716,667,892,648交易性金融资产Financial assets held-for-trading-1,525,241,8441,525,241,844衍生金融资产Derivative ﬁnancial assets313,750,50311,249,416,0783,969,76011,567,136,341买入返售金融资产Reverse repurchase ﬁnancial assets-2,273,636,714-2,273,636,714发放贷款和垫款Loans and advances to customers5,771,554,31729,591,211,553823,270,25736,186,036,127其他债权投资其他金融资产金融资产合计负债：Other debt instrument at fair value through other 
comprehensive incomeOther ﬁnancial assetsTotal ﬁnancial assetsLiabilities:-11,029,276,744-11,029,276,74414,732,777633,130,7423,949,249651,812,76813,377,793,03664,451,951,6142,010,082,60079,839,827,250同业及其他金融机构存放款项 Due to banks and other ﬁnancial institutions3,225,2501,621,371,375-1,624,596,625拆入资金Placements from banks and other ﬁnancial institutions12,994,553,3843,555,193,09642,383,45216,592,129,932交易性金融负债Financial liabilities held-for-trading6,943,9353,637,288,183-3,644,232,118衍生金融负债Derivative ﬁnancial liabilities442,632,80911,165,278,5053,452,31111,611,363,625吸收存款应付债券Customer depositsDebt securities issued卖出回购金融资产款Repurchase agreements其他金融负债金融负债合计Other ﬁnancial liabilitiesTotal ﬁnancial liabilities4,959,624,49231,153,868,998349,655,20536,463,148,695--2,037,710,703466,069,704--2,037,710,703466,069,70413,335,712540,614,64029,253,147583,203,49918,420,315,58254,177,395,204424,744,11573,022,454,901资产负债净头寸Net position(5,042,522,546)10,274,556,4101,585,338,4856,817,372,349衍生金融工具名义金额Notional amounts of derivative ﬁnancial instruments222,913,086,062442,074,097,1114,978,704,029669,965,887,202信贷承诺Commitments2,787,131,2575,621,955,2793,061,290,00011,470,376,536162163财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2020 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2020
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)于 2019 年 12 月 31 日，本公司的有关资产及负债按币种列示如下：As at 31 December 2019, the Bank's assets and liabilities by currency are 
as follows:以下是在其他变量不变的情况下，外币对本位币汇率可能发生的
合理变动对税前利润的影响：Holding all other variables constant, the impact from a change in 
foreign exchange rates on proﬁt before tax of the Bank is as follows:变量变动对本位币贬值 1%对本位币升值 1%Change in Foreign Exchange Rate-1% change against RMB+1% change against RMB31-12-2020对税前利润影响
 Impact on proﬁt34,571,841(34,571,841)31-12-2019对税前利润影响
 Impact on proﬁt30,913,926(30,913,926)以上敏感性分析基于资产和负债具有静态的汇率风险结构，其计
算了当其他因素不变时，外币对人民币汇率的合理可能变动对税
前利润的影响。The sensitivity analysis above is performed on the basis that assets and 
liabilities have static currency risk structure. It shows the impact of a 
change in other currency rates against RMB on the Bank's proﬁt before 
tax, given other variables remain constant.有关的分析基于以下假设：(1)  汇率敏感度是指各币种对人民币于报告日当天收盘（中间价 )汇率绝对值波动 1% 造成的汇兑损益；The analysis is based on below assumptions:(1)  Exchange rate sensitivity refers to the gains and losses caused by 
one per cent change of the closing rate (mid rate) of the different 
foreign currencies against RMB as at the balance sheet date;美元
 USD
(RMB equivalent)人民币
RMB其他
 Others 
(RMB equivalent)31-12-2019合计      
 Total (RMB 
equivalent)资产：Assets:现金及存放中央银行款项 Cash and deposit with the Central Bank1,260,954,0345,212,572,4174,016,7996,477,543,250贵金属Precious metals-1,162,708,344-1,162,708,344存放同业款项Due from banks and other ﬁnancial institutions845,841,112849,748,279156,849,5111,852,438,902拆出资金Placements with banks and other ﬁnancial institutions6,371,849,3161,102,036,93425,959,9727,499,846,222交易性金融资产Financial assets held-for-trading-1,425,658,377衍生金融资产Derivative ﬁnancial assets246,252,2703,887,525,619买入返售金融资产Reverse repurchase ﬁnancial assets-3,253,748,361---1,425,658,3774,133,777,8893,253,748,361发放贷款和垫款Loans and advances to customers4,768,459,64629,403,144,366972,810,60035,144,414,612其他债权投资Other debt instrument at fair value through other 
comprehensive income-10,145,887,936-10,145,887,936(2)  各币种汇率变动是指各币种对人民币汇率同时同向波动；其他金融资产Other ﬁnancial assets63,043,364258,083,4802,037,709323,164,553金融资产合计Total ﬁnancial assets13,556,399,74256,701,114,1131,161,674,59171,419,188,446负债：Liabilities:(3)  该汇率风险敞口不包含资产负债表表外科目。(2)  Exchange rate ﬂuctuation refers to the ﬂuctuation against RMB in由于基于上述假设，汇率变化导致本公司汇兑净损益出现的实际
变化可能与此敏感性分析的结果不同。the same direction simultaneously;(3)  Off-balance sheet items are excluded.同业及其他金融机构存放
款项Due to banks and other ﬁnancial institutions14,027,319478,042,559-492,069,878拆入资金Placements from banks and other ﬁnancial institutions10,858,156,4302,354,453,493246,342,51213,458,952,435交易性金融负债Financial liabilities held-for-trading1,545,0473,181,631,577衍生金融负债Derivative ﬁnancial liabilities255,635,9793,881,579,611--3,183,176,6244,137,215,590吸收存款应付债券Customer depositsDebt securities issued卖出回购金融资产款Repurchase agreements5,958,865,12533,183,078,325364,144,87839,506,088,328--2,745,552,507720,292,241--2,745,552,507720,292,241其他金融负债Other ﬁnancial liabilities77,250,939224,726,61433,498,697335,476,250金融负债合计Total ﬁnancial liabilities17,165,480,83946,769,356,927643,986,08764,578,823,853资产负债净头寸Net position(3,609,081,097)9,931,757,186517,688,5046,840,364,593衍生金融工具名义金额Notional amounts of derivative ﬁnancial instruments205,397,564,415405,088,300,6244,077,731,796614,563,596,835信贷承诺Commitments3,008,815,4765,160,895,7893,364,181,83511,533,893,100Due to the above assumptions, the actual impact of exchange rate 
fluctuation on the Bank's earnings may differ from above sensitivity 
analysis.164165财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2020 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2020
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)3.2 利率风险交易账户(3.2) Interest rate riskTrading Book交易账户主要包括因交易目的或者是为规避交易账户其他项目风
险而持有的可自由交易的金融工具和商品头寸。交易账户中的市
场风险取决于交易的工具，包括利率、汇率、股票价格、商品价格、
信贷利差等。本公司目前使用标准法计量监管要求下的市场风险资本，使用内
部模型法计量和监控交易账户市场风险。本公司在内部市场风险管理中采用 97.5% 置信区间下测算日预期
损失 (Expected Shortfall) 的历史模拟法。该方法认为诸如利率、汇
率和商品价格等风险因子在未来的变动特征可以通过观察其历史
数据得到。预期损失（ES）是尾部损失分布的均值，认为通常计
量结果大于某一置信区间点计量的潜在损失。在回溯测试中，本公司采用历史模拟法 99% 置信区间下的日风险
价值（VaR）。风险价值（VaR）与预期损失（ES）的损失分布一
致。通过回溯测试比较交易账户的损益与风险价值（VaR）的差
异来验证是否有因为模型缺陷或市场波动导致其中不符合预期的
结果。所有回溯测试反映的问题及解决方案都将汇报至资产负债
委员会。虽然 VaR 和 ES 是衡量市场风险的重要工具，但有关模型的假设存
在一定限制条件，例如：•  在绝大多情况下，可在 1 个交易日的观察期内进行仓盘套期或
出售的假设合理，但在市场长时期严重流动性不足的情况下，1
个交易日的观察期假设可能不符合实际情况；•  VaR 和 ES 按当日收市基准计算，并不反映交易当天持仓可能面对的风险；•  历史数据用作确定将来结果的可能范围的基准，不一定适用于所有可能情况，特别是例外事项。为弥补 ES 测量法的不足，本公司借助压力测试及情景测试，找出
银行在面对某些极端情景时可能出现的损失。这些测试为主动市
场风险管理提供了早期预警信息，以应对可能的极端损失。本公司 2020 年 12 月 31 日的 ES 为人民币 1,778 万元（2019 年 12 月
31 日 ES：人民币 680 万元）。Trading book mainly includes freely tradable financial instruments and 
commodity positions held for trading purpose or to avoid risks of other 
items in the trading account. The market risk in trading book depends on 
the tools of the transaction, including interest rates, exchange rates, stock 
prices, commodity prices, and credit spreads, etc.The  Bank  currently  adopts  the  Standardised  Approach  for  the 
calculation of regulatory market risk capital and uses the Internal 
Models Approach to measure and to control trading market risks.The Bank estimates a daily Expected Shortfall (ES) within a 97.5 
per cent confidence interval over a one-day holding period, using 
the historical simulation method, as a control for market risk. This 
method assumes observed historical market movements can be used 
to imply possible future changes in market rates. ES is the average of 
the worst losses in the distribution, assuming that the losses exceed 
the speciﬁed percentile.For back testing purpose, the Bank uses daily VaR within a 99 per cent 
conﬁdence interval over a one-day holding period. VaR uses the same 
loss distribution as ES. The backtesting process analyses whether 
the exceptions are due to model deficiencies or market volatility. 
All backtesting exceptions are tabled to ALCO with recommended 
actions and resolutions.Although VaR and ES are important tools to measure market risk, there 
are certain limitations on the assumptions of the model, such as:•In most cases, the assumption that a position can be hedged or 
sold within the observation period of one trading day is reasonable, 
but in the case of severe liquidity shortage in the market over a 
long period of time, the assumption of the observation period of 
one trading day may not be in line with the actual situation;•  VaR and ES are calculated based on the day's closing benchmark 
and do not reﬂect the risks that may be faced by positions held on 
the trade day;•  Historical data is used as a basis for determining the possible 
range of future results, and may not be applicable to all possible 
situations, especially exceptions.To complement the ES measure, the Bank perform stress and scenario 
tests to identify the Bank's vulnerability to event risk. These tests 
serve to provide early warnings of plausible extreme losses.The Bank's daily ES on 31 December 2020 was RMB17.78 million (The 
Bank's daily ES on 31 December 2019 was RMB6.80 million).银行账户Banking book资产负债委员会负责总揽利率风险管理框架的有效性。资产负债
风险管理部协助资产负债委员会负责监测银行账户下的利率风险。利率风险管理的主要目标就是在多样化的经济环境中，通过管理
银行的净利息收入来保护并促进银行资本和经济价值的增长。本公司使用分析工具，包括重定价期限和敏感性分析定量测算银
行账户利率风险敞口。通过对利率敏感资产负债相对于利率变动
的分析，揭示利率变动对利息收入及经济价值潜在影响。利率敏
感度受重新定价期限、币种及隐含的期权的影响。相比于短期错
配，长期的利率错配对利率头寸价值的影响更大。本公司亦采用如净利息收入和净资产经济价值定量分析方法定期
进行利率风险压力测试 ,  以管理银行的资本金应对因为利率的大
幅波动对银行资产负债表的影响。同时，该压力测试也用于对极
端情况下可能发生高额损失的早期预警并促进银行在快速波动的
市场环境下积极地管理利率风险。The ALCO maintains oversight of the effectiveness of the interest 
rate risk management structure. The Balance Sheet Risk Management 
(BSRM) Division supports the ALCO in monitoring the interest rate 
risk proﬁle of the banking book.The primary objective of interest rate risk management is to protect 
and to enhance capital or economic net worth through adequate, 
stable and reliable growth in net interest earnings under a broad range 
of possible economic conditions.Banking book interest rate risk exposure is quantiﬁed using analysis 
tools  include  repricing  schedules  and  sensitivity  analysis.  They 
provide indications of the potential impact of interest rate changes 
on interest income and economic value through the analysis of the 
sensitivity of assets and liabilities to changes in interest rates. Interest 
rate sensitivity varies with different repricing periods, currencies and 
embedded options mismatches in the longer tenor will experience 
greater impact in the price-value of interest rate positions than 
similar positions in the shorter tenor.The Bank also performs quantitative analysis method of net interest 
income and economic value of net assets regularly to determine the 
adequacy of capital in meeting the impact of extreme interest rate 
movements on the balance sheet. Such tests are also performed to 
provide early warnings of potential extreme losses, facilitating the 
proactive management of interest rate risks in an environment of 
rapid ﬁnancial market changes.166167财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2020 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2020
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)由于利率，汇率和股权价格变化带来交易账户下的风险通过市场
风险管理框架来进行管理和监控。于 2020 年 12 月 31 日，本公司银行账户包含的所有的资产及负债
按合同重定价日或到期日两者较早者分析如下：The risks arising from the trading book, such as interest rates, foreign 
exchange rates and equity prices are managed and controlled under 
the market risk framework.As at 31 December 2020, the Bank's assets/liabilities of banking book 
re-pricing proﬁles (based on the earlier of maturity date and re-pricing 
date) is as follows:于 2019 年 12 月 31 日，本公司银行账户包含的所有的资产及负债
按合同重定价日或到期日两者较早者分析如下：As at 31 December 2019, the Bank's assets/liabilities of banking book 
re-pricing proﬁles (based on the earlier of maturity date and re-pricing 
date) is as follows:3 个月内
Within 3 months3 个月至 1 年
3 months to1 year1 至 5 年
1 to 5 years5 年以上
5 years above不计息
Non-interest bearing31-12-2020合计
Total3 个月内
Within 3 months3 个月至 1 年
3 months to1 year1 至 5 年
1 to 5 years5 年以上
5 years above不计息
Non-interest bearing31-12-2019合计
Total资产：Assets:现金及存放中央银
行款项Cash and deposit with the 
Central Bank存放同业款项拆出资金Due from banks and other 
ﬁnancial institutionsPlacements with banks and 
other ﬁnancial institutions3,816,427,1303,136,221,418--5,951,361,714706,453,015买入返售金融资产Reverse repurchase ﬁnancial 
assets2,271,155,258---------877,166,1844,693,593,314资产：Assets:现金及存放中央银
行款项Cash and deposit with the 
Central Bank489,2063,136,710,624存放同业款项10,077,9196,667,892,648拆出资金Due from banks and other 
ﬁnancial institutionsPlacements with banks and 
other ﬁnancial institutions5,208,579,4181,325,476,216--5,097,104,8782,381,911,0332,481,4562,273,636,714买入返售金融资产Reverse repurchase ﬁnancial 
assets3,246,187,571---------1,268,963,8326,477,543,250457,7741,325,933,99020,830,3117,499,846,2227,560,7903,253,748,36115,631,528,02619,122,766,263100,352,774200,002,099261,449,87735,316,099,039发放贷款及垫款Loans and advances to 
customers26,721,599,0507,052,510,65561,345,5694,063,521320,353,11034,159,871,905发放贷款及垫款Loans and advances to 
customers其他债权投资Other debt instrument at 
fair value through other 
comprehensive income其他金融资产Other ﬁnancial assets---2,823,774,2502,429,707,1305,632,156,081143,639,28311,029,276,744其他债权投资Other debt instrument at 
fair value through other 
comprehensive income1,797,653,0802,421,439,8205,776,267,01037,656,38337,656,383其他金融资产Other ﬁnancial assets-------150,528,02610,145,887,93638,800,68938,800,689金融资产合计Total ﬁnancial assets33,630,467,79622,258,926,4085,732,508,855200,002,0991,332,960,30863,154,865,466金融资产合计Total ﬁnancial assets43,396,600,21311,855,861,5085,837,612,5794,063,5211,807,494,53262,901,632,353负债：Liabilities:同业及其他金融机
构存放款项Due to banks and other 
ﬁnancial institutions1,483,415,305139,172,999-拆入资金吸收存款Placement from banks and 
other ﬁnancial institutions6,573,472,2387,946,023,2201,995,800,000Customer deposits28,251,006,1907,140,019,598627,778,016卖出回购金融资产款 Repurchase agreements466,000,000--应付债券Debt securities issued其他金融负债Other ﬁnancial liabilities--999,444,170997,628,999--金融负债合计Total ﬁnancial liabilities36,773,893,73316,224,659,9873,621,207,015衍生金融资产（注）衍生金融负债（注）Derivative ﬁnancial 
assets(Note)Derivative ﬁnancial 
liabilities(Note)978,650,82984,823,700980,537,94084,813,830--2,008,3211,624,596,62576,834,47416,592,129,932444,344,89136,463,148,695负债：Liabilities:同业及其他金融机
构存放款项Due to banks and other 
ﬁnancial institutions208,871,450280,000,000-拆入资金吸收存款Placement from banks and 
other ﬁnancial institutions3,458,521,6817,881,005,2941,995,800,000Customer deposits30,913,772,7597,225,059,3481,027,111,68369,704466,069,704卖出回购金融资产款 Repurchase agreements720,000,000--40,637,5342,037,710,703应付债券Debt securities issued138,171,601138,171,601其他金融负债Other ﬁnancial liabilities--709,614,8711,995,411,133--702,066,52557,321,827,260金融负债合计Total ﬁnancial liabilities35,301,165,89016,095,679,5135,018,322,816--1,063,474,5291,065,351,770衍生金融资产（注）衍生金融负债（注）Derivative ﬁnancial 
assets(Note)Derivative ﬁnancial 
liabilities(Note)214,885,200224,633,640212,901,803224,981,292--------------------3,198,428492,069,878123,625,46013,458,952,435340,144,53839,506,088,328292,241720,292,24140,526,5032,745,552,50799,349,86399,349,863607,137,03357,022,305,252--439,518,840437,883,095利率风险缺口Net position(3,145,313,048)6,034,276,2912,111,301,840200,002,099630,893,7835,831,160,965利率风险缺口Net position8,097,417,720(4,240,165,657)819,289,7634,063,5211,200,357,4995,880,962,846注：  本公司银行账户包含的衍生金融资产 / 负债按名义本金的合同重定价日或到期日两者较早者进行分析。
Note: The derivative ﬁnancial assets/liabilities of banking book are analysed based on the earlier of re-pricing date and maturity date of the nominal principal.168169财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2020 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2020
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)本公司对浮动利率工具按照重定价日，对固定利率工具按照到期
日管理计息金融资产及计息金融负债的重定价情况。以下是在其他变量不变的情况下，利率可能发生的合理变动对净
损益、其他综合收益的税后净额及所有者权益方面的影响。The Bank profiles its interest bearing assets and liabilities based on 
maturity date for fixed rate items or re-pricing date for floating rate 
items.Holding other variables constant, the impact of interest rate movement 
on the Bank's net profit, other comprehensive income after tax and 
equity is as follows:31-12-202031-12-2019对净损益的影响
Impact on net proﬁt对净损益的影响
Impact on net proﬁt所采用之方法及假设如下：变量变动Change in interest rate利率增加 100 个基点+ 100 basis points利率减少 100 个基点-  100 basis points(3,669,715)3,669,71541,213,838(41,213,838)以上敏感性分析基于资产和负债具有静态的利率风险结构。有关
的分析仅衡量一年内利率变化，反映为一年内本公司资产和负债
的重新定价对本公司按年化计算利息收入的影响，基于以下假设：(1)  所有在三个月内及三个月后但一年内重新定价或到期的资产和负债均假设在有关期间中间重新定价或到期；(2)  收益率曲线随利率变化而平行移动；The sensitivity analysis above is performed on the basis that assets and 
liabilities have static interest rate risk structure. It reﬂects the impact of 
interest rate movement on the Bank's net interest income over a one-
year period. The key assumptions are as follows:(1)  All assets and liabilities with re-pricing date less than three months 
or between three months and one year are assumed to be re-
priced in the middle of the respective time bucket;(3)  资产和负债组合并无其他变化；(2)  Yield curve shifts in parallel with interest rate change;(4)  此利率风险敞口不包含除衍生金融工具以外的资产负债表表(3)  Assets and liabilities are not subject to other changes; and外科目。(4)  Off-balance sheet items except derivative ﬁnancial instruments are由于基于上述假设，利率增减导致本公司利息净收入出现的实际
变化可能与此敏感性分析的结果不同。excluded.Due to the above assumptions, the actual impact of net interest 
income from interest rate movement may differ from above sensitivity 
analysis.(i)  以公允价值计量且其变动计入当期损益的金融资产 / 金融负债
（包括衍生金融资产 / 金融负债）乃参考可供参照之市价计算
其公允价值。倘无可供参照之市价，则将现金流量折现估算公
允价值或参照交易对方的报价确定公允价值。公允价值等于此
等项目之账面金额；(ii)  于 12 个月内到期之其他金融资产金融负债由于期限较短，它们的账面价值与公允价值相若；(iii)  凡定息贷款按当时适用于类似贷款之市场利率贷出，其公允价
值以参照市场利率方法估算。贷款组合中信贷质量之变化在确
定总公允价值时不予考虑，因为信贷风险之影响将单独作为贷
款损失，从账面值及公允价值中扣除；(iv)  客户存款乃按不同品种使用固定或浮动利率。活期存款及无指
定届满期之储蓄账户假设结算日按通知应付金额为公允价值。
有固定期限之存款的公允价值以现金流量折现法估算，折现率
为与该定期存款的剩余期限对应的现行存款利率。本公司确定公允价值的方法可以归结为以下两种：(i)  市值计价：计价是运用独立并未经调整的市场报价；(ii)  估值计价：计价是运用估值技术进行估值。1704. 公允价值(4) Fair value of ﬁnancial instruments公允价值，是指市场参与者在计量日发生的有序交易中，出售一项
资产所能收到或者转移一项负债所需支付的价格。在交易活跃之市
场（例如认可证券交易所）存在的条件下，市价乃金融工具公允价
值之最佳证明。然而，本公司所持有及发行之部分金融资产及负债
并无市价。因此，对于该部分无市价可依之金融工具，以如下所述
之现值或其他估计方法估算公允价值。但是，运用此等方法所计之
价值会受有关未来现金流量数额，时间性假设，以及所采用之折现
率影响。Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to 
transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants 
at the measurement date. Subject to the existence of an active market, 
such as an authorised securities exchange, the market value is the best 
reﬂection of the fair value of ﬁnancial instruments. As there is no available 
market value for some of the ﬁnancial assets and liabilities held and issued 
by the Bank, the discounted cash ﬂow method or other valuation methods 
described below are adopted to determine the fair value of these assets 
and liabilities. However, the value determined by such methods would 
depend on the amount of future cash ﬂows, time period assumption and 
discount rates used.The following methods and assumptions are used in estimating fair values:(i)Financial  assets  at  fair  value  through  profit  or  loss  (including 
derivative assets/liabilities) are stated at fair value by reference to 
the quoted market prices when available.  If quoted market prices are 
not available, the fair value is estimated using discounted cash ﬂows 
or quoted price from the counter parties. The carrying amounts of 
these items reﬂect the fair value as at the balance sheet date;(ii)  The fair values of other ﬁnancial assets and liabilities maturing within 
12 months are assumed to be equal to their carrying amounts in view 
of their short maturity;(iii)  The fair value of ﬁxed rate loans priced at market rate at the time the 
loans are extended shall be determined using prevailing market rates 
of similar loans. Changes in the credit quality of loans within the 
portfolio are not taken into account in determining the fair values 
as the impact of credit risk is recognised separately as impairment 
provision which shall be deducted from the carrying amounts and 
fair value;(iv)  Customer deposits are priced based on fixed rate or floating rate 
depending on the product type. The fair value of demand deposits 
and saving deposits without specific maturity date is determined 
based on the amount payable on demand. The fair value of fixed 
deposits are estimated using discounted cash ﬂows method with the 
prevailing deposit rate for the remaining tenor of the ﬁxed deposit as 
the discount rate.The method of determining a fair value in the Bank can be categorised 
into two main approaches:(i)  Mark to Market - where the valuation uses independent unadjustedquoted market prices;(ii)  Mark to Model - where valuation techniques are used to determinethe valuation.171Valuation adjustments are an integral part of the fair value process 
that  requires  the  exercise  of  judgment  to  ensure  correct  fair  value 
representation. In making appropriate valuation adjustments, the Bank 
follows the methodologies that consider factors such as bid-offer spread 
valuation adjustment and model valuation adjustment.The Bank has established internal control procedures over the valuation 
process to provide assurance over the appropriateness of the fair values 
applied. If fair value is determined by valuation models, the assumptions and 
techniques within the models are independently validated by a specialist 
group. In addition, price and parameter inputs, assumptions and valuation 
adjustments are subject to veriﬁcation and review processes. Other valuation 
control includes review and analysis of daily proﬁt and loss.The Bank classiﬁes all the fair value instruments according to the following 
hierarchy:下表列示了以公允价值计量的金融工具的公允价值层次：The following table shows the fair value hierarchy of ﬁnancial instruments 
measured in fair value:贵金属Precious metals交易性金融资产Financial assets held-for-trading衍生金融资产Derivative ﬁnancial assets公允价值计量使用的输入值Inputs in fair value measurement重要可观察输入值Signiﬁcant observable inputs（第二层次）(Level 2)31-12-202031-12-20191,564,487,5851,162,708,3441,525,241,8441,425,658,37711,567,136,3414,133,777,889Level 1: Quoted market price发放贷款和垫款 - 黄金租借Loans and advances to customers-gold loan866,797,767981,432,228Other debt instrument at fair value through other comprehensive income11,029,276,74410,145,887,936其他债权投资金融资产合计Total ﬁnancial assets交易性金融负债Financial liabilities held-for-trading衍生金融负债金融负债合计Derivative ﬁnancial liabilitiesTotal ﬁnancial liabilities26,552,940,28117,849,464,7743,644,232,1183,183,176,62411,611,363,6254,137,215,59015,255,595,7437,320,392,214本年度，本公司未发生以公允价值计量的第一层次和第二层次金融
资产和负债之间的转换。During the year, the Bank had no transfers between level 1 and level 2 
of the fair value hierarchy for ﬁnancial assets and liabilities which were 
recorded at fair value.管理层认为，于年末，本公司的其他金融资产和金融负债的公允价
值与相应的账面价值并无重大差异。In the opinion of the management, the difference between the fair value 
and the carrying amount of other ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities is 
not material as at the balance sheet date.财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2020 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2020
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)估值调整作为实现公允价值的一个必要组成，要求根据客观情况，
对交易价格进行调整以确保公允价值的准确性。本公司遵循的估值
调整方法考虑到不同的因素，例如买卖价差估值调整和模型估值调
整，以确保计价的合理有效。本公司建立了内部控制机制来确保公允价值的合理性。如果采用模
型式估值，模型中的假设和技术都会事先经过独立专家小组的专门
验证。此外，模型中的价格、输入参数、假设和估值调整方法都会
经过核实和复查。其他的估值控制还包括复核和分析日常盈亏。本公司将所有进行公允价值估值的金融产品划分为三个层次：第一层次：公开市场价格这种估值技术运用相同资产和负债的活跃市场报价得出估值金额。
被归纳此层次的金融产品包括由中央国债登记结算有限公司每日公
布市场价格的债券。第二层次：估值输入参数可以通过市场观察得到的估值技术这种估值方式是通过标准模型确定，而输入的主要参数都能在市场
上直接观察。这种技术包括现金流折现分析、期权定价模型和一些
市场参与者普遍使用和接受的技术。被纳入这个层次的金融产品主
要为外汇远期，外汇互换，贵金属远期 / 互换及柜台交易的衍生品（如
货币市场拆借、利率互换、外汇期权、买断式转贴现），并包括公
允价值由交易对手提供的金融产品（如背对背对冲结构性产品）。第三层次：当主要参数不能直接观察得到时采用的估值技术这种估值技术运用合理市场假设的基础上获取主要不可观察参数。
目前本公司还没有相关的金融产品被归纳在这个层次。以上各假设及方法乃为本公司资产及负债之公允价值提供一致之计
算准则。然而，由于其他机构或会使用不同之方法及假设，各金融
机构所披露之公允价值未必完全具有可比性。This  valuation  technique  uses  recent  unadjusted  quoted  prices  for 
identical assets or liabilities in active markets where the price represents 
actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arm's length basis. 
Financial instruments included in this class are bonds with the marked-
to-market prices actively made available and announced by China Central 
Depository and Clearing Co., Ltd.Level 2: Valuation technique using observable inputsThis valuation technique is used for ﬁnancial instruments where the prices 
are derived from standard valuation models, and significant inputs to 
these models are directly observable. The valuation techniques include 
the use of discounted cash ﬂow analysis, option pricing models and other 
valuation techniques widely used and accepted by market participants. 
The financial instruments included in this category are mainly foreign 
exchange forward and foreign exchange swaps, precious metals forward 
and swaps, and OTC derivatives (namely money market deposit and 
placement, interest rate swap, FX option, rediscounted bills) and ﬁnancial 
instruments with fair value derived from counterparty (for structured 
products arranged on back-to-back basis).Level 3: Valuation technique with signiﬁcant non-observable inputsThis valuation technique is used where at least one significant input is 
not observable and reliance is placed on reasonable assumptions made 
on market conditions. There is currently no financial instrument being 
classiﬁed under such category.All the assumptions and methods mentioned above provide a consistent 
basis for the calculation of fair value of the Bank's assets and liabilities. 
However, other institutions may use different assumptions and methods. 
Therefore, the fair values disclosed by different ﬁnancial institutions may 
not be entirely comparable.172173财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2020 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2020
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)十二、关联方关系及交易1. 关联方的认定标准12.    Related party transactions(1) Criteria of identifying related parties3. 于本年内与本公司有关联交易的其他关联方(3) The related parties which the Bank had transactions with during theyear are as follows于本年度，下列各方构成本公司的关联方：Details of the Bank's major related parties in 2020 are as follows:(1)  本公司的母公司；
(2)  本公司的子公司；
(3)  与本公司受同一母公司控制的其他企业；
(4)  对本公司实施共同控制的投资方 ;
(5)  对本公司施加重大影响的投资方；
(6)  本公司的合营企业；
(7)  本公司的联营企业；
(8)   本公司的主要投资者个人及与其关系密切的家庭成员；
(9)  本公司的关键管理人员或母公司关键管理人员，以及与其关系密切的家庭成员；(10)  本公司的主要投资者个人、关键管理人员或与其关系密切的家庭成员控制、共同控制的其他企业；(11)  本公司所属企业集团的其他成员单位（包括母公司和子公司）的合营企业或联营企业；(12)  对本公司实施共同控制的企业的合营企业或联营企业；
(13)  对本公司施加重大影响的企业的合营企业；
(14)  本公司设立的企业年金基金。Parent company of the Bank;(1) 
(2)  Subsidiary of the Bank;
(3)  Entities under control of the same parent company;
(4) 
(5) 
(6) 
(7)   Afﬁliated company of the Bank;
(8)   Main individual investors of the Bank or the close family members;
(9)  Key management personnel of the Bank or parent company, andInvestors exercise joint control over the Bank;
Investors exercise signiﬁcant inﬂuence over the Bank;
Joint ventures of the Bank;the close family members;(10)  Other companies controlled or jointly controlled by the Bank's 
major  investors,  key  management  personnel  or  close  family 
members;
Joint  ventures  or  affiliated  company  of  other  member  units 
(including parent companies and subsidiaries) of the enterprise 
group to which the bank belongs;
Joint ventures or afﬁliated company of enterprises which exercise 
joint control over the Bank;
Joint ventures of enterprises which exercise significant influence 
over the Bank;(12)(11)(13)2. 本公司母公司(14)  Annuity established by the Bank.(2) Parent company of the Bank名称Name业务性质Business Nature注册地Registered Address股本Share Capital拥有权益比例Shareholding大华银行有限公司银行及金融服务United Overseas Bank LimitedBanking and Financial Service新加坡Singapore7,325百万新币SGD7,325 Million100%同受母公司控制的公司
Company under the common control of parent company名称Name业务性质Business Nature注册地注册资本Registered AddressRegistered Capital法定代表人Legal Representative大华银行 ( 马来西亚 ) 有限公司银行及金融服务马来西亚 吉隆坡马来西亚林吉特 20 亿元黄金松United Overseas Bank (Malaysia) Bhd.Banking and ﬁnancial serviceKuala Lumpur MalaysiaRM2 BillionWong Kim Choong大华银行 ( 泰国 ) 有限公司
United Overseas Bank (Thai) Public Company Limited银行及金融服务
Banking and ﬁnancial service泰国 曼谷
Bangkok Thailand泰铢 248.6 亿元
Baht24.86 Billion陈俊兴
Tan Choon Hin大华银行（印度尼西亚）有限公司
PT Bank UOB Indonisia银行及金融服务
Banking and ﬁnancial service印度尼西亚 雅加达
Jakarta Indonesia印度尼西亚卢比 27,966.61 亿元
IDR27,96.661 BillionHendra Gunawan上海华新置业有限公司
UOB Property China Co., Ltd.房地产开发、经营、租赁和管理
Real estate development, operating, 
leasing and management中国 上海 
Shanghai China人民币 22.59 亿元
RMB2.259 Billion符懋赞
Peter Foo Moo Tan优欧弼投资管理（上海）有限公司
UOB Venture Management (Shanghai) Co., Ltd投资管理，自有资产管理，投资咨询
Consulting and investment management中国 上海
Shanghai China美元 1,555 万元
USD15.55 Million大华资产管理有限公司
UOB Asset Management Ltd.资产管理
Investment management新加坡
Singapore新币 6,300 万元
SGD63,000,000受母公司重大影响的公司
Company under the signiﬁcant inﬂuence of the parent company益诺丰企业管理咨询 ( 北京 ) 有限公司
InnoVen Enterprise Management Consulting (Beijing) 
Co., Ltd.企业管理咨询服务
Business Management Consulting 
Service中国 北京
Beijing China美元 150 万元
USD1.5 Million溢诺丰融资租赁有限公司
InnoVen Financial Leasing Co., Ltd.融资租赁业务及兼营与主营业务相关
的商业保理业务
Financial leasing; business factoring 
related to main business中国 天津美元 1,000 万元Tianjing ChinaUSD10 Million谢建伟
Seah Kian WeeThio Boon Kiat曹映雪
Cao Ying Xue曹映雪Cao Ying Xue174175财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2020 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2020
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)本公司的关键管理人员Key management personnel4. 本公司与关联方之主要交易(4)  Main transactions between the Bank and related parties关键管理人员，包括本公司的董事、监事及高级管理人员。Key management personnel include directors, supervisor and senior 
management.受本公司关键管理人员重大影响的公司
Company under the signiﬁcant inﬂuence of the Bank's key management名称Name华业 ( 厦门 ) 酒店有限公司Hua Ye Xiamen Hotel Limited业务性质Business Nature经营管理酒店Hotel management天津华业希望房地产开发有限公司
Tianjin UOL Xiwang Real Estate Co.,Ltd.房地产开发
Real estate development庆隆（上海）投资管理有限公司
Kheng Leong (Shanghai) Investment 
Management Co., Ltd厦门虎标医药有限公司
Xiamen Tiger Medicals Co., Ltd.商务信息、企业管理及投资管理咨询
Business information consulting; 
Corporate management consulting, 
Investment management consulting注册地注册资本Registered AddressRegistered capital法定代表人Legal Representative中国 厦门Xiamen China中国 天津
Tianjin China中国 上海
Shanghai China美元 3,700 万元USD37 Million人民币 11.3 亿元
RMB1.13 Billion美元 650 万元
USD6.5 Million梁顺合Neo Soon Hup陈建守
Tan Kian Siew黄一超
Wee Ee Chao吴美蓉
Goh Bee Leong黄祖耀
Wee Cho YawChua Yu LeeLim Beng Teong制造和销售国药产品
Manufacture and sale of Chinese 
pharmaceutical products中国 厦门
Xiamen China美元 820 万元
USD8.2 Million虎豹企业有限公司
Haw Par Corporation Limited投资控股
Investment holding新加坡
Singapore新币 266.228 百万元
SGD266.228 Million新嘉置地（成都）发展有限公司
Singland (Chengdu) Development Co., Ltd.房地产开发、经营、租赁和管理
Real estate development, operating, 
leasing and management中国 成都
Chengdu China美元 2,400 万元
USD24 Million上海锦鹏置业有限公司
Shanghai Jin Peng Realty Co., Ltd房地产开发及经营
Real estate development and operation中国 上海
Shanghai China人民币 23 亿元
RMB2.3 Billion御道津旅（天津）发展有限公司
UIC Jin Travel (Tianjin) Co., Ltd.新型建筑材料生产、写字楼、公寓
酒店、商业设施的销售、租赁、管理
Manufacturing of new construction 
materials, sale, lease and management 
of ofﬁce buildings, apartment hotel, 
commercial facilities中国 天津人民币 2.4060 亿元Tianjin ChinaRMB240.6 Million余在杰Eu Zai Jie上海锦骏置业有限公司
Shanghai Jin Jun Realty Co., Ltd.房地产开发及经营
Real estate development and operation中国 上海
Shanghai China泛太平洋（上海）酒店管理有限公司
Pan Paciﬁc (Shanghai) Hotel Management Co., Ltd.酒店管理、投资咨询、企业管理咨询
Hotel management, investment 
consulting and  corporate management 
consulting中国 上海
Shanghai China人民币 7.191 亿元
RMB719.1Million美元 5 万元
USD50 ThousandLim Beng TeongNeo Soon Hup恒丰银行有限公司
Hengfeng Bank Co., Ltd.商业银行 - 吸收存款发放贷款，办理
结算，票据业务等
Commercial Banks - Customer deposits, 
Loans and advances to customers,  
settlement and bill business, etc中国 山东
Shandong China人民币 1112.096 亿元
RMB111.2096 Billion陈颖
Chen Ying176发放贷款和垫款Loans and advances to customers31-12-202031-12-2019上海锦骏置业有限公司Shanghai Jin Jun Realty Co., Ltd.御道津旅（天津）发展有限公司 UIC JinTravel (Tianjin) Co., Ltd.合计Total223,145,78369,077,107292,222,8900.60105,206,0390.1972,215,0260.79177,421,0650.290.200.49余额
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)余额
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)存放及拆放款项Due from and placement with banks31-12-202031-12-2019余额
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)余额
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)大华银行有限公司United Overseas Bank Limited1,408,350,02213.58682,051,368恒丰银行有限公司Hengfeng Bank Co., Ltd.195,607,821大华银行 ( 马来西亚 ) 有限公司United Overseas Bank (Malaysia) Bhd.1,951,478大华银行 ( 泰国 ) 有限公司United Overseas Bank (Thai) Public 
Company Limited大华银行 ( 印度尼西亚 ) 有限公司 PT Bank UOB Indonisia232,9386,3381.890.02---1,301,269258,916-合计Total1,606,148,59715.49683,611,5537.28-0.01--7.29存入及拆入款项Due to and placements from banks and 
other ﬁnancial institutions31-12-202031-12-2019余额
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)余额
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)大华银行有限公司United Overseas Bank Limited15,185,945,67883.36 13,352,032,925大华银行（泰国）有限公司United Overseas Bank (Thai) Public 
Company Limited2,529,0300.011,127,972合计Total15,188,474,70883.37 13,353,160,89795.710.0195.72177财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2020 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2020
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)吸收存款Customer deposits31-12-202031-12-2019应付款项 - 其他负债Payables - other liabilities31-12-202031-12-2019余额
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)余额
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)余额
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)余额
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)上海锦鹏置业有限公司Shanghai Jin Peng Realty Co., Ltd.1,560,946,6994.28474,882,349上海华新置业有限公司UOB Property China Co., Ltd.优欧弼投资管理（上海）有限公司 UOB Venture Management (Shanghai)Co., Ltd.460,016,400191,283,8311.26399,860,0780.52195,792,396新嘉置地（成都）发展有限公司Singland (Chengdu) Development Co., 
Ltd.150,148,5720.41144,625,727溢诺丰融资租赁有限公司InnoVen Financial Leasing Co., Ltd.厦门虎标医药有限公司Xiamen Tiger Medicals Co., Ltd.泛太平洋（上海）酒店管理有限公司 Pan Paciﬁc (Shanghai) Hotel ManagementCo., Ltd.华业（厦门）酒店有限公司Hua Ye Xiamen Hotel Limited御道津旅（天津）发展有限公司UIC Jin Travel (Tianjin) Co., Ltd.益诺丰企业管理咨询 ( 北京 ) 有限公
司InnoVen Enterprise Management 
Consulting (Beijing) Co., Ltd.54,735,49317,616,28814,895,8587,686,6407,351,0106,791,5130.150.050.040.020.020.0250,971,9366,411,81115,689,44610,079,70111,007,1255,290,313庆隆（上海）投资管理有限公司Kheng Leong (Shanghai) Investment 
Management Co., Ltd.4,724,8710.017,077,644虎豹企业有限公司Haw Par Corporation Limited4,723,1880.014,928,856天津华业希望房地产开发有限公司 Tianjin UOL Xiwang Real Estate Co., Ltd.上海锦骏置业有限公司Shanghai Jin Jun Realty Co., Ltd.42,5502,328--105,7751,750关键管理人员Key Management Personnel16,557,7960.0524,868,312合计Total2,497,523,0376.84 1,351,593,2191.201.010.500.370.130.020.040.030.030.010.020.01--0.063.43应收款项 - 其他应收款Receivables- other receivables31-12-202031-12-2019余额
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)余额
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)上海华新置业有限公司UOB Property China Co., Ltd.大华银行有限公司United Overseas Bank Limited大华资产管理有限公司UOB Asset Management Ltd.合计Total12,931,1002,845,307353,80516,130,2121.9512,892,0480.4321,220,9190.05375,4162.4334,488,3833.916.440.1110.46178大华银行有限公司United Overseas Bank Limited29,196,163大华银行 ( 泰国 ) 有限公司United Overseas Bank (Thai) Public优欧弼投资管理（上海）有限公司 UOB Venture Management (Shanghai) Co., Ltd合计845,385188,76030,230,3085.010.140.035.1859,909,32417.86----59,909,32417.86交易性金融负债Financial liabilities held-for-trading31-12-202031-12-2019大华银行有限公司United Overseas Bank Limited3,273,239,91889.82 3,183,176,624100.00余额
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)余额
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)利息收入Interest income20202019金额 
Amount占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)金额 
Amount占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)上海锦骏置业有限公司Shanghai Jin Jun Realty Co., Ltd.恒丰银行有限公司Hengfeng Bank Co., Ltd.御道津旅（天津）发展有限公司 UIC JinTravel (Tianjin) Co., Ltd.大华银行有限公司United Overseas Bank Limited合计Total8,101,3814,044,1793,545,4462,650,76518,341,7710.380.190.160.120.853,169,165-3,452,12411,406,70718,027,9960.13-0.150.480.76179财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2020 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2020
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)利息支出Interest expense20202019手续费及佣金收入Fee and commission income20202019金额 
Amount占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)金额 
Amount占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)金额 
Amount占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)金额 
Amount占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)大华银行有限公司United Overseas Bank Limited234,436,23020.15413,649,14426.90大华资产管理有限公司UOB Asset Management Ltd.上海锦鹏置业有限公司Shanghai Jin Peng Realty Co., Ltd.22,692,4181.9510,151,597上海华新置业有限公司UOB Property China Co., Ltd.8,928,2320.777,396,285优欧弼投资管理（上海）有限公司 UOB Venture Management (Shanghai)Co., Ltd.3,407,8750.293,613,516新嘉置地（成都）发展有限公司Singland (Chengdu) Development Co., 
Ltd.溢诺丰融资租赁有限公司InnoVen Financial Leasing Co., Ltd.泛太平洋（上海）酒店管理有限公司 Pan Paciﬁc (Shanghai) Hotel ManagementCo., Ltd.华业（厦门）酒店有限公司Hua Ye Xiamen Hotel Limited御道津旅（天津）发展有限公司UIC Jin Travel (Tianjin) Co., Ltd.益诺丰企业管理咨询 ( 北京 ) 有限公司 InnoVen Enterprise ManagementConsulting (Beijing) Co., Ltd.庆隆（上海）投资管理有限公司Kheng Leong (Shanghai) Investment 
Management Co., Ltd.虎豹企业有限公司Haw Par Corporation Limited厦门虎标医药有限公司Xiamen Tiger Medicals Co., Ltd.大华银行（泰国）有限公司United Overseas Bank (Thai) Public 
Company Limited天津华业希望房地产开发有限公司 Tianjin UOL Xiwang Real Estate Co., Ltd.上海锦骏置业有限公司Shanghai Jin Jun Realty Co., Ltd.1,706,433407,416165,862140,053108,84463,90061,85829,15921,4947,594269160.150.040.010.010.011,591,986113,364224,551142,621110,2340.0135,9470.0199,379-----1,667,79416,5768,258967578关键管理人员Key Management Personnel323,5910.03806,904合计Total272,501,24423.43439,629,7010.660.480.230.100.010.010.010.01-0.010.11----0.0528.58180大华银行有限公司United Overseas Bank Limited上海锦骏置业有限公司Shanghai Jin Jun Realty Co., Ltd.御道津旅（天津）发展有限公司UIC JinTravel (Tianjin) Co., Ltd.溢诺丰融资租赁有限公司InnoVen Financial Leasing Co., Ltd.大华银行（泰国）有限公司United Overseas Bank （Thai）Public 
Company Limited厦门虎标医药有限公司Xiamen Tiger Medicals Co., Ltd.恒丰银行股份有限公司Hengfeng Bank Co., Ltd.天津华业希望房地产开发有限公司 Tianjin UOL Xiwang Real Estate Co., Ltd.庆隆（上海）投资管理有限公司Kheng Leong (Shanghai) Investment 
Management Co., Ltd上海华新置业有限公司UOB Property China Co., Ltd.华业（厦门）酒店有限公司Hua Ye Xiamen Hotel Limited益诺丰企业管理咨询 ( 北京 ) 有限公司 InnoVen Enterprise ManagementConsulting (Beijing) Co., Ltd.泛太平洋（上海）酒店管理有限公司 Pan Paciﬁc (Shanghai) Hotel ManagementCo., Ltd.新嘉置地（成都）发展有限公司Singland (Chengdu) Development Co., 
Ltd虎豹企业有限公司Haw Par Corporation Limited优欧弼投资管理（上海）有限公司 UOB Venture Management (Shanghai)Co., Ltd.7,148,0145,940,5011,030,822111,71438,10824,14214,1135,4832,8212,0001,4731,12584572838--3.703.070.530.060.020.010.014,599,29515,038,75275,531798180,64814,312452,597-----------3,230-1,8181,584779936801,303368大华银行 ( 马来西亚 ) 有限公司United Overseas Bank (Malaysia) Bhd.(22,262)(0.01)122,562合计Total14,299,6657.3920,494,5931.926.280.03-0.080.010.19----------0.058.56181财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2020 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2020
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)手续费及佣金支出Fee and commission expense20202019不可撤消的贷款承诺Irrevocable loan commitments31-12-202031-12-2019金额 
Amount占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)金额 
Amount占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)余额
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)余额
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)大华银行（印度尼西亚）有限公司 PT Bank UOB Indonisia大华银行有限公司United Overseas Bank Limited大华银行 ( 马来西亚 ) 有限公司United Overseas Bank (Malaysia) Bhd.大华银行 ( 泰国 ) 有限公司United Overseas Bank (Thai) Public Company 
Limited1,688,92871,54925-3.340.14---1,022,834512,112合计Total1,760,5023.481,024,997投资收益Investment income2020-1.51--1.512019大华银行有限公司United Overseas Bank Limited9,133,6425.0616,282,48131.94金额 
Amount占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)金额
Amount占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)上海锦骏置业有限公司Shanghai Jin Jun Realty Co., Ltd.52,207,2092.28169,931,2076.89衍生金融工具合约Derivatives31-12-202031-12-2019大华银行有限公司United Overseas Bank Ltd.42,488,123,7776.34 28,971,782,8384.71余额
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)余额
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)保函Letter of guarantee31-12-202031-12-2019大华银行有限公司United Overseas Bank Ltd.61,841,5785.7450,222,1174.76余额
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)余额
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)业务及管理费General and administrative expenses20202019使用权资产Right-of-use assets31-12-202031-12-2019金额 
Amount占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)金额 
Amount占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)余额
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)余额
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)信息技术支持费IT support- 大华银行有限公司-United Overseas Bank Limited60,819,1515.8647,375,200房屋租金及服务费Rental and service fee- 上海华新置业有限公司-UOB Property China Co., Ltd.54,300,776- 华业（厦门）酒店有限公司-Hua Ye Xiamen Hotel Limited- 大华银行有限公司-United Overseas Bank Limited296,13378,4915.230.030.0147,232,480296,133936,841合计Total115,494,55111.1395,840,654开发软件Software development20204.434.420.030.098.972019大华银行有限公司United Overseas Bank Limited1,733,18477.427,306,38746.81金额 
Amount占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)金额 
Amount占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)上海华新置业有限公司
- 房屋租赁-UOB Property China Co., Ltd
-Rent76,029,37462.28--租赁负债Lease liabilities31-12-202031-12-2019上海华新置业有限公司
- 房屋租赁-UOB Property China Co., Ltd
-Rent77,394,28065.35--余额
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)余额
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)买入返售Reverse repurchase ﬁnancial assets31-12-202031-12-2019恒丰银行有限公司Hengfeng Bank Co., Ltd.150,035,3046.60--余额
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)余额
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)182183财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2020 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2020
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)本公司与上述关联方进行的交易根据正常的商业交易条件进行，以一
般交易价格为定价基础，并按正常业务程序进行。除上述交易外，本公司支付给关键管理人员薪金福利如下：The Bank's transactions with the above-mentioned related parties are 
conducted in accordance with normal commercial transaction conditions, 
based on general transaction prices, and in accordance with normal business 
procedures.十三、租赁1. 作为承租人13. Lease(1) As lesseeKey management personnel's salaries and beneﬁts are as follows:雇员薪金及其他短期福利Employee salaries and other short-term 
incentives202097,088,423201990,497,505与本公司年金计划的交易情况如下：Transactions between the Bank and the annuity are as follows:本公司承租的租赁资产包括经营过程中使用的房屋及建筑物和运输
工具，房屋及建筑物的租赁期通常为 2-5 年，运输工具的租赁期通
常为 3-4 年。少数租赁合同包含续租选择权、终止选择权。The leased assets of the Bank include the buildings and vehicles used 
during daily operation. The lease term for buildings is usually 2-5 years, 
and the lease term for vehicles is usually 3-4 years. Few lease contracts 
have an option to extend the lease or an option to terminate the lease.与租赁相关的现金流出Cash outﬂow related to lease202081,911,894201935,813,445本公司与本年设立的企业年金基金除正常的供款业务外，本年未发
生其他关联交易。No transactions other than normal contribution to the annuity were 
conducted between the Bank and the annuity established by the Bank.未纳入租赁负债计量的未来潜在现金流出Potential cash outﬂow that not accounts for lease liabilities本公司未纳入租赁负债计量的未来潜在现金流出主要来源于可变租
赁付款额，租赁合同中的续租选择权与终止选择权，租赁担保余值，
已承诺但尚未开始的租赁等风险敞口。Potential cash outﬂow that not accounts for lease liabilities mainly arises 
from risk exposures such as variable lease payable, option to extend 
the lease, option to terminate the lease, guaranteed residual value, and 
committed but not commenced leases.续租选择权与终止租赁选择权2020 年，本公司无因续租选择权或终止选择权的评估结果或实际行
使情况发生变化而导致租赁期变化。已承诺但尚未开始的租赁Option to extend the lease, option to terminate the leaseThere  is  no  change  on  lease  terms  arose  from  the  change  on  the 
assessment of option to extend the lease, option to terminate the lease 
or actual option exercise situation in 2020.本公司本年已承诺但尚未开始的租赁预计未来年度现金流出的情况
如下：Committed but not commenced leasesThe  expected  cash  outflow  in  future  years  of  committed  but  not 
commenced leases as below:1 年以内（含 1 年）Within 1 year (include 1 year)1 年至 2 年（含 2 年）1-2 years (include 2 years)2 年至 3 年（含 3 年）2-3 years (include 3 years)20202,854,5111,430,946-4,285,457201941,413,84541,413,84541,413,845124,241,535185184财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2020 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2020
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)租赁费用补充信息Additional information on lease expense本公司对短期租赁和低价值资产租赁进行简化处理，未确认使用权
资产和租赁负债，短期租赁、低价值资产当期计入费用的情况如下：The bank uses the simpliﬁed approach to account for a short-term lease 
and a lease of low-value assets which are not recognised as the right-
of-use assets and lease liabilities. Proﬁt or loss recognises on short-term 
leases and leases of low-value assets as below:短期租赁费用Expenses for short-term lease低价值租赁费用（短期租赁除外）Expenses for lease of low-value assets 
(short-term lease  not included)20205,118,900-5,118,900201948,992,602-48,992,602其他租赁信息Additional information on lease使用权资产，参见附注四、15 和附注七、10；租赁负债的利息费用，
参见附注七、31；对短期租赁和低价值资产租赁的简化处理，参见附
注四、15；租赁负债，参见附注四、15 和附注七、23。Right-of-use assets refers to note 4.15 and note 7.10; Interest expense for 
lease liabilities refers to note 7.31; simplified approach to account for a 
short-term lease and a lease of low-value assets refers to note 4.15; lease 
liabilities refers to note 4.15 and note 7.23.十四、资产负债表日后事项14. Post balance sheet events截至本财务报表批准报出日止，本公司没有其他任何需作披露或调
整的重大资产负债表日后事项。As at the date on which the ﬁnancial statements are approved, there is no 
material post balance sheet event that needs to be disclosed or adjusted 
by the Bank.十五、比较数据若干比较数据乃经过重新编排，以符合本年度之列报要求。15. Comparative amounts十六、财务报表之批准Certain comparative amounts have been adjusted to conform with the 
current year's presentation.本财务报表业经本公司董事会于 2021 年 3 月 26 日决议批准。16. Approval of the ﬁnancial statementsThe  financial  statements  were  approved  for  issue  by  the  Board  of 
Directors on 26 March 2021.186187188