大华银行（中国）有限公司
UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITED
2021 年度报告  | ANNUAL REPORT 2021创新引领可持续未来
Innovating for a Sustainable Tomorrow《昨日创造未来》
黄宇恒
The Day After Tomorrow
Wong Yee Heng1目录
Contents02  大华银行中国简介About UOB China03  大华银行简介About United Overseas Bank Limited06  主要财务信息Financial Highlights07  董事长致辞Chairman's Statement13  公司信息Corporate Information14  监事17  董事会SupervisorBoard of Directors22  大华银行中国组织架构图UOB China Organisation Chart 202124  管理层报告2021 in Review50  公司治理64  风险管理84  重要事项85  营业网点Corporate GovernanceRisk ManagementImportant HighlightsBranch Network87  已审财务报表Audited Financial Statements《昨日创造未来》黄宇恒
宣纸水墨70 x 140 厘米今年年度报告的设计灵感源自画作《昨日创造未来》。该作品荣获 2021 年大华银行年度绘画大赛（新加坡）新锐画家组银奖。
此幅作品取材于当前席卷全球的气候变化和频繁发生的自然灾害。在作者笔下，山川河流已化为人造摩天大厦、桥梁隧
道，交通体系和地下城市。它提醒我们人类所构建的未来都市是对自然予取予求的写照，也必将以牺牲地球环境为代价。在当前瞬息万变的时代，我们在不断追求发展和创新的过程中，必须考虑对环境所造成的影响。大华银行相信，必须平
衡增长与责任二者的关系。秉承诚信、进取、齐心、担当这四大历经考验的核心价值观，我们致力与客户、员工和社区
共筑可持续的未来。作为亚洲艺术的坚守者，大华银行坚信艺术在连接社区、凝聚人心方面所起到的重要作用。2021 年大华银行年度绘画大
赛正式迎来四十周年，为我行这一促进视觉艺术发展的旗舰项目树立了重要的里程碑。此届比赛中，来自印度尼西亚、
马来西亚、新加坡和泰国的艺术家们放飞想象力，提交了众多优秀作品，真实记录了人们在这一段不确定时期所表现出
的坚韧、勇气和共情之心。The Day After TomorrowWong Yee HengChinese ink on rice paper70 x 140 cmThe Day After Tomorrow, the Silver Award winner in the Emerging Artist Category at the 2021 UOB Painting of the Year (Singapore), 
is the design inspiration for this year's Annual Report. The artwork is inspired by climate change and the natural disasters faced 
around the world. It depicts the natural landscape of mountains and rivers transforming into man-made high-rise buildings, 
tunnels, bridges, transportation and underground cities - a reminder that our desire to create futuristic cities comes at the expense 
of Mother Earth.In these fast-changing times, we must consider how the continuous pursuit of progress and innovation is impacting the 
environment. At UOB, we believe that growth must be balanced with responsibility. It is our long-term approach as we draw on 
our time-tested values of Honour, Enterprise, Unity and Commitment to forge a sustainable future with our customers, colleagues 
and communities.As the leading patron of the arts in Asia, UOB believes in the vital role of art in connecting communities. 2021 marks the signiﬁcant 
40th milestone for our ﬂagship visual arts programme, the UOB Painting of the Year competition. The entries from across Indonesia, 
Malaysia, Singapore and Thailand ignited the imagination and demonstrated the ingenuity of artists in capturing the fortitude, 
compassion and resilience of people during these uncertain times.21大华银行中国简介
About UOB China大华银行简介
About United Overseas Bank Limited大华银行（中国）有限公司（大华银行中国）是亚洲银行业翘楚——
大华银行有限公司（大华银行）的在华全资子公司，拥有中国本地
法人银行资格。大华银行中国于 2007 年 12 月 18 日注册成立，总部
设在上海。United Overseas Bank (China) Limited (UOB China) is a wholly-owned 
subsidiary of United Overseas Bank Limited (UOB), a leading bank in Asia. 
UOB China is headquartered in Shanghai and was incorporated in the 
People's Republic of China on 18 December 2007.自 1984 年，大华银行在北京开设了第一间办事处以来，大华银行中
国目前已在中国的主要城市拥有十余家分支机构。From our ﬁrst representative ofﬁce in Beijing in 1984, we have grown our 
network to 16 branches and sub-branches in major Chinese cities.我们不断加强在各方面的实力。2006 年，大华银行成为上海第一家
获批为客户处理资本账目的东南亚银行。2008 年，大华银行中国获
得了人民币零售业务牌照；2011 年获得了上海黄金交易所授予的在
华黄金交易会员资格；2012 年 7 月，大华银行中国获得合格境内机
构投资者（QDII）资格，12 月，又获得了银行间黄金询价资格，成
为首批获得此项资格的四家外资银行之一。2013 年，大华银行中国
成为第一批在中国获得本地基金代销执照的外资银行之一。2014 年，
大华银行中国设立上海自贸试验区支行，并成为首批获得银行间外
汇市场人民币对新元直接做市商资格及银行间黄金询价交易尝试做
市商资质的外资银行之一。2015 年，大华银行中国获得了黄金进出
口的行政许可。2018 年，大华银行中国获批成为首批人民币对泰铢
直接交易做市商之一，并成功发行了其三年期的金融债。这是银行
间市场首单由东南亚银行发行的境内“债券通”金融债。2019 年，大
华银行中国成为上海期货交易所第三家外资银行成员并成为“上海银”
的集中定价会员，2020 年，大华银行中国位列跨境人民币贸易融资
资产转让平台首批外资银行会员。2021 年大华银行中国获批为首批
人民币对印尼卢比直接做市商银行之一。这些都进一步扩展了大华
银行在中国的业务。2015 年大华银行集团向大华银行中国增加资本金 25 亿元人民币，
2021 年再次增资 20 亿元。目前，大华银行中国总注册资本金达到 75
亿元人民币，综合财务实力获惠誉 A+ 评级，中诚信 AAA 极，评级
展望均为稳定。作为一家严谨负责的金融服务机构，我们致力为广大利益相关方和
营运所在社区带来改变生活的正能量。我们不仅全力以赴协助客户
合理管理个人财富和帮助企业取得业务增长，同时也坚定不移地在
艺术、儿童和教育三大领域推动社会发展。We have also been building on our strengths. In 2006, UOB was the 
first bank from Southeast Asia authorised to settle capital accounts in 
Shanghai. We received a retail Renminbi (RMB) licence and Shanghai Gold 
Exchange (SGE) trading membership in 2008 and 2011 respectively. In 2012, 
we were awarded a Qualified Domestic Institutional Investors licence, 
and were one of four foreign banks to participate in bullion trading on 
the SGE interbank platform. UOB China is one of the ﬁrst foreign banks to 
obtain a local mutual fund licence in China in 2013. The following year, we 
established a sub-branch in the Shanghai Free Trade Zone, and obtained a 
trial market maker licence for interbank gold bilateral transactions and a 
market maker licence for direct trading between RMB and the Singapore 
dollar in the interbank foreign exchange market. We also obtained the 
gold import and export licence in 2015.In 2018, UOB China became one the ﬁrst market makers do execute direct 
trading between the RMB and the Thai Baht. The Bank also successfully 
priced its three-year onshore RMB financial bond through the China 
interbank market and the Bond Connect scheme (BCS), which is the ﬁrst 
onshore financial bond issued by a Southeast Asian bank through the 
BCS. In 2019, UOB China became the ﬁrst Southeast Asia-headquartered 
bank to be a member of the Shanghai Futures Exchange and the first 
foreign bank to be a Fixing Member for the Shanghai Silver Benchmark 
Price. UOB China also became one of the ﬁrst foreign bank members of 
the Cross-border RMB Trade Finance Trading Platform in 2020. In 2021, 
the Bank is approved to be one of the ﬁrst direct market makers for RMB 
and Indonesia Rupiah. These achievements have enabled us to widen our 
product and service offering to our customers operating in China.UOB Group increased the registered capital of UOB China by RMB2.5 
billion in 2015 followed by another capital injection of RMB2 billion in 
2021. UOB China's current registered capital is RMB7.5 billion and the Bank 
is rated 'A+' with a stable outlook by Fitch Ratings and 'AAA' with a stable 
outlook by China Cheng Xin International.We believe in being a responsible ﬁnancial services provider and we are 
committed to making a difference in the lives of our stakeholders and in 
the communities in which we operate. Just as we are dedicated to helping 
our customers manage their ﬁnances wisely and to grow their businesses, 
UOB China is steadfast in our support of social development, particularly 
in the areas of art, children and education.我们的机构Who We Are大华银行有限公司（大华银行）是亚洲主要银行，在全球拥有约
500 间分行及办事处，分布在亚太、欧洲与北美的 19 个国家和地区。
在亚洲，大华银行通过新加坡总行和在中国、印度尼西亚、马来西
亚、泰国及越南的附属银行以及各地分行和办事处，开展广泛的金
融业务。UOB is a leading bank in Asia with a global network of around 500 
branches and offices across 19 countries and territories in Asia Pacific, 
Europe and North America. In Asia, we operate through our head ofﬁce in 
Singapore and banking subsidiaries in China, Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand 
and Vietnam, as well as branches and ofﬁces across the region.1935 年，全球还处于经济大萧条后的不确定期，大华银行便开始为
新加坡的商业社群提供银行服务。In 1935, amid the economic uncertainties following the Great Depression, 
UOB opened its doors to provide banking services for the merchant 
community in Singapore.从此大华银行通过自身发展和一系列的战略收购行动不断壮大。如
今大华银行获评为世界顶尖银行之一：穆迪给予“Aa1”评级，标普全
球评级和惠誉分别给予“AA-”评级。在过去的 80 多年里，一代代大华银行职员秉承开拓进取的精神，以
创造长远价值为目标，勇于担当，对所有利益相关方始终诚挚如一，
信守相伴。在大华银行，我们矢志做严谨负责的金融服务机构，致力为营运所
在的社区创造改变生活的正能量。正如我们全力以赴协助客户明智
管理他们的财务和取得业务成长，大华银行也坚定不移地支持社会
发展，并将推动艺术、帮助儿童成长及促进教育作为重点。我们的业务大华银行通过集团零售银行业务、集团机构银行服务及环球金融三
个核心业务部门，在全球提供全面的金融服务。这包括个人银行、
私人银行、商业银行、交易银行、投资及外汇资金服务。通过各个
附属公司，我们也提供资产管理、私募股权基金及保险服务。Since then, UOB has grown organically and through a series of strategic 
acquisitions. Today, UOB is rated among the world's top banks: 'Aa1' by 
Moody's Investors Service and 'AA-' by both S&P Global Ratings and Fitch 
Ratings.Over more than eight decades, generations of UOB employees have 
carried through the entrepreneurial spirit, the focus on long-term value 
creation and an unwavering commitment to doing what is right for our 
stakeholders.At UOB, we believe in being a responsible ﬁnancial services provider and 
we are committed to making a difference in the communities in which 
we operate. Just as we are dedicated to helping our customers manage 
their finances wisely and grow their businesses, we are steadfast in our 
support of social development, particularly in the areas of art, children 
and education.What We DoUOB provides a wide range of ﬁnancial services globally through our three 
core business segments – Group Retail, Group Wholesale Banking and 
Group Global Markets. Our offering includes consumer banking, private 
banking, commercial banking, transaction banking, investment banking 
and treasury services. Through our subsidiaries, we also provide asset 
management, private equity fund management and insurance services 
among others.23大华银行介绍
About United Overseas Bank Limited我们的营运所在
Where We Operate~500 大华银行在亚太、欧洲和北美地区拥有约 500 家分行及办事处。
branches  and  offices  in  Asia  Pacific, 
Europe and North America加拿大
Canada
3美国
USA
3英国
United
Kingdom
1法国
France
1亚洲 Asia文莱  Brunei 
中国香港 
Hong Kong SAR 
印度 India 
印度尼西亚 
Indonesia 
日本 Japan 
中国内地(大陆)
Mainland China23
2152
221马来西亚 Malaysia  49
2
缅甸 Myanmar 
1
菲律宾 Philippines 
73
新加坡 Singapore 
1
韩国 South Korea 
中国台湾 
Taiwan, China 
泰国 Thailand 
越南Vietnam2
150
6澳大利亚
Australia
24
4大华银行（中国）有限公司  2021 年度报告UNITED OVERSEAS BANK (CHINA) LIMITED ANNUAL REPORT 20215
5主要财务信息
Financial Highlights20212020Increase
(Decrease)经营成果Operating result人民币千元 RMB'000营业收入合计Total operating income1,597,5411,433,552营业费用Total operating expenses1,064,5691,052,484资产减值损失Impairment charges税前利润资产负债资产总计财务指标Proﬁt before taxBalance sheetTotal assetsFinancial indicators净资产利润率Return on equity资产利润率成本收入比Return on average total assetsExpenses/income ratio手续费及佣金净收入比总收入 Net fee and  commission income/totaloperating income存贷比（人民币）Loan-to-Deposit ratio（RMB）杠杆率不良贷款率拨备覆盖率贷款拨备率Leverage ratioNon-performing loan ratioNon-performing loan coverage ratioProvision-to-loan ratio流动性匹配率Liquidity matching ratio优质流动性资产充足率High-quality liquid assets adequacy ratio资本充足率指标Capital adequacy ratio核心一级资本充足率Core Tier 1 CAR一级资本充足率资本充足率Tier 1 CARTotal CAR6132,364398,421267,602107,214人民币千元 RMB'00078,220,11980,487,543%4.60.465.710.393.67.40.3796.32.5123.4221.913.213.216.0%1.60.172.410.095.07.00.4664.12.4119.7144.613.413.416.4%11.41.1(50.5)271.6%(2.8)%3.00.3(6.7)0.3(1.4)0.4(0.1)132.20.13.777.3(0.2)(0.2)(0.4)董事长致辞
Chairman's Statement今年年报，我们选取《昨日创造未来》作为封面，借这幅作品提醒The cover of this year's Annual Report The Day After Tomorrow reminds每一个人，在追求创新和增长的路上，我们必须目光长远，并勇于us  that  in  the  pursuit  of  progress  and  growth,  one  must  always  act承担自身所肩负的责任。对于大华银行来说，我们的每一个决策和responsibly and with a long-term view. At UOB, our decisions and actions言行，都是从自身的价值观出发，致力于兼顾各方当下及长远的利益。have always been guided by our values and our commitment to do what isright for our stakeholders not only for the now, but also for the long term.2021 年，新冠肺炎疫情继续在全球肆虐与反复，在抗击疫情初现曙光时，又出现了新型的病毒变体。全球供应链紧张加剧，地缘政治2021 was a year where the twists and turns of the COVID-19 pandemic局势仍然动荡。尽管面临诸多外部挑战，中国经济持续稳定恢复。challenged many. Just as the future seemed more certain, new virus variants在当前双循环新发展格局下，中国一方面大力促进“内循环”的高质emerged. Global trade supplies were strained, as were geopolitics, for much量发展，另一方面利用“外循环”创造可持续的经济增长动力。2021of the year. Amid these challenges, China sustained its steady economic年也是中国东盟建立对话关系 30 周年，中国与东盟的经贸往来愈加recovery. The country's two-pronged dual circulation strategy continued to紧密。drive high-quality economic growth and its domestic and international tradeﬂows. The year also marked the 30th anniversary of China-ASEAN relations, a在这一年，我行也借势在区域互联互通、定制化解决方案以及可持year when the economic ties between China and ASEAN grew even stronger.续发展三大领域继续提升自身能力。这些领域不仅确保我们能进一步贯彻战略纲领，同时也令我们与中国经济一起实现转型，取得高In 2021, UOB China invested in enhancing our capabilities in the areas of质量稳定增长。基于对中国市场的坚定的信心与承诺，大华银行集regional connectivity, personalised solutions and sustainability. These areas团也向中国增资 20 亿人民币。are critical to us in delivering our strategic priorities and ensure we continueto transform with China's economy. Our long-term commitment to Chinaand conﬁdence in the country's growing economy is underscored by a capitalinjection of two billion Renminbi (RMB) from UOB in UOB China.7董事长致辞
Chairman's Statement2021 年财务业绩Financial performance in 2021集中贯彻战略重点，实现长期业务增长Sustaining long-term growth through our strategic priorities得益于收入的增长以及资产减值损失的下降，我行 2021 年净利润同We achieved record net proﬁt of RMB332.9 million in 2021, up 206.2 per作为一家在东南亚业务首屈一指的银行，我们一直着力于推动中国As a bank with unparalleled expertise and experience in Southeast Asia,比上升 206.2%，达人民币 3.3 亿元，创历史新高。cent from the previous year, driven by rising income and lower impairment与东盟之间的互联互通，同时与各方共筑可持续未来。为此，我行UOB is here to support closer connectivity between China and Southeastcharges.将继续加大在三个领域的投资：Asia and to build a sustainable future for all. To achieve our purpose, UOB营业收入同比增长 11.4% 至人民币 16.0 亿元，主要受到净利息收入增China continues to invest in three key areas:长的拉动。存款结构调整带来的净息差上升以及生息资产规模的稳Total operating income increased 11.4 per cent to RMB1.6 billion, mainly1.  深化互联互通业务，助推中国与东盟之间不断增进的经贸往来健增长，拉动净利息收入同比增长 12.1%，达人民币 11.1 亿元。同时，attributed to the growth of net interest income, which rose 12.1 per cent2.  为客户提供定制化的财富管理方案，以助其实现企业和个人的1.  Deepening our connectivity capabilities that facilitate increased手续费及佣金净收入和交易及投资类收益分别实现 14.8% 和 8.2% 的to RMB1.1 billion, boosted by improved interest margins from deposit目标trade and economic activity between China and ASEAN;增长。restructuring and healthy growth of interest-bearing assets. Meanwhile,3.  与客户、员工及社区共筑可持续未来2.  Creating personalised wealth management solutions  that  enable营业支出同比小幅上升 1.1% 至人民币 10.6 亿元。由于信贷展望稳定，investment income rose 8.2 per cent.深化区域联动和互联互通业务net fee and commission income grew 14.8 per cent, and trading andour customers to achieve their individual and business goals; and3.  Forging  a  sustainable  future  with  our  customers,  colleagues  and资产减值损失同比下降 50.5% 至 1.3 亿元。Total operating expenses increased slightly by 1.1 per cent to RMB1.1 billion.2021 年，尽管面临疫情和地缘政治所带来的不确定性，得益于大中communities.华区—东盟之间强劲的贸易与投资活动，我行的跨境收入实现有机2021 年末，贷款规模上升 8.2% 至人民币 392 亿元，存款规模上升Impairment charges decreased 50.5 per cent to RMB132.4 million, with增长。作为长期的银行合作伙伴，我们也与多家客户以及合作伙伴Deepening our regional connectivity capabilities and commitment14.4% 至人民币 417 亿元。我行的资产质量保持稳定，不良贷款率从credit outlook stabilising.上年末的 0.4% 小幅下降至 2021 年末的 0.3%。我们密切监控资产组合，并对我行的资产质量和拨备充足性有着充分的信心。Loans grew 8.2 per cent to RMB39.2 billion and deposits increased 14.4 percent to RMB41.7 billion as at 31 December 2021. Our asset quality remained截止 2021 年 12 月 31 日，我行保持良好的流动性水平，流动性匹配率stable. The non-performing loan (NPL) ratio declined marginally to 0.3 per和优质流动性资产充足率分别为 123.4% 和 221.9%，远超过最低监管cent from 0.4 per cent a year ago. We monitor our portfolio vigilantly and要求。are conﬁdent of the resilience of our asset quality and adequacy of our截止 2021 年 12 月 31 日，我行的核心一级资本充足率和总资本充足率provisions.分别为 13.2% 和 16.0%，远高于最低监管要求。As at 31 December 2021, our liquidity and funding positions remainedhealthy with liquidity matching ratio at 123.4 per cent and high-quality目前，大华银行中国的综合财务实力获惠誉 A+ 及展望稳定评级，以liquid asset adequacy ratio at 221.9 per cent, well above the minimum及中诚信 AAA 及展望稳定的评级。regulatory requirements.签订战略合作备忘录，继续深化合作关系。In  2021,  strong  trade  and  investment  activities  along  the  ASEAN-Greater China corridors helped drive our cross-border income despite在客户投资贸易活动中，我们观察到对跨境流动性管理、本币结算uncertainties brought on by the pandemic and geopolitical situations. As以及双向人民币资金方案的需求与日俱增。因此，我们推出一系列a long-term and committed player, we also deepened our relationship有针对性的跨境解决方案，包括中泰直连跨境人民币资金池和本外with many clients and like-minded partners through signing strategic币一体化资金池。同时大华银行一举成为人民币和印尼卢比特许交memoranda of understanding (MOUs).叉货币直接做市商，也是首家取得这一资质的新加坡银行。In facilitating our clients' trade and investment activities, we saw greater在为客户提供创新性金融方案的同时，我们也不断在支付和贸易领demand for cross-border liquidity, local currency settlement and two-域提升数字化能力。我们特别为对公客户推出新一代企业数字银行way cross-border RMB ﬂow solutions. To meet their needs, we developedUOB Inﬁnity。这一应用为客户提供账户数据信息，实时追踪跨境汇new cross-border capabilities such as the first China-Thailand cross-款状态，助其高效地做出业务决策。在区块链领域，我行也成功协border RMB cash sweeping solution and multi-currency cross-border cash助新加坡资讯通信媒体发展局在其区块链交易平台 TradeTrust 完成了pool. We were also the ﬁrst Singapore-headquartered bank to become an中新跨境数字贸易的模拟测试。Appointed Cross-Currency Dealer in RMB and Indonesian Rupiah.Our Common Equity Tier 1 and Total Capital Adequacy Ratios stood at13.2 per cent and 16.0 per cent respectively, well above the regulatoryminimum requirements.We  were  rated  A+  by  Fitch  Ratings  and  AAA  by  China  ChengxinInternational Credit Rating with a stable outlook.8As part of creating progressive offerings for our customers, we alsobroadened our digital payment and trade capabilities. We rolled out UOBInfinity, a new digital banking experience for our corporate clients andwhich provides essential business intelligence such as real-time tracking ofcross-border payments for improved efﬁciencies. In the use of blockchain,we successfully supported Singapore's Infocomm Media DevelopmentAuthority's pilot run on TradeTrust Utility which digitalises cross-bordertrade ﬂows between Singapore and China.9董事长致辞
Chairman's Statement打造高端财富管理方案Creating wealth management solutions人才是我们最宝贵的财富。因此我行系统性地帮助员工管理身心健Appreciating that our people are our greatest asset, we developed a当前富裕消费者也在寻求更多财富管理的咨询与服务。因此我们进With affluent customers increasingly seeking wealth advisory services,一步聚焦于高净值人群，并基于自身的业务能力和独特的客户价值we sharpened our focus on serving high-net-worth customers. We built主张，为他们提供优质可靠的财富管理方案，满足这一人群个人、on our advisory capabilities and unique customer value propositions to家庭和企业的财富目标。provide them with high-quality and reliable wealth solutions, helpingthem achieve their personal, family and business goals.康，从而助其实现个人和职业的全面发展。从员工俱乐部活动，到total wellness approach to their personal and professional well-being.为员工和社区提供免费疫苗接种，再到我行的“感恩月”及首届职业From our Staff Club activities and providing vaccines to our people and发展周活动，我们积极推广关爱、成长与信任的企业文化。同时，communities, through to our Appreciation Month and ﬁrst Career Week,我们也在全面技能进阶计划 Better U 当中，加入了项目管理和数据we deepened the culture of care, growth and trust within the Bank. We分析这两项技能课程，帮助员工掌握面向未来的必备技能，在瞬息also added new tracks of project management and data analytics to our为了给我行客户提供更便捷互动的线上服务，我行将原有直销银行万变的商业环境中游刃有余。flagship Better U training programme to equip our colleagues with theknowledge essential to staying relevant in the fast-paced and changing全新升级为“大华银行尊享财富”移动应用。升级后，客户可在手机To offer a more accessible and engaging banking experience for our端进行 I 类与 II 类账户查询，随享投资理财的新体验。customers,  we  revamped  our  Direct  Banking  App  and  rebranded  itthe UOB China Privilege Banking App. The upgraded App enables our在与客户和员工并肩前行的同时，我们也关注弱势和有需要的群体。industry.2021 年，大华银行中国通过多项活动，募集善款近 44 万元人民币，同时，我们也与长期战略合作伙伴恒丰银行就个人金融业务等签署customers to view their accounts and to purchase banking products均用于我行支持的社区项目。我行志愿者也积极投身社区公益活动，Just as we have been there for our customers and colleagues when it户、员工和社区“共筑可持续未来”。UOB's time-tested values of Honour, Enterprise, Unity and Commitment亚洲前景可期，我们大有所为合作备忘录，通过贡献并发挥自身优势，为恒丰银行及其个人客户conveniently using their mobile devices.提供 “新加坡一站通”环球金融服务、私人财富管理等多方位业务支持。共筑可持续未来诚信、进取、齐心、担当这四大久经考验的企业价值观，一直指导As part of broadening our collaborations with ecosystem partners, we alsosigned an MOU with Hengfeng Bank, drawing on our network strengthsto provide global investment and private banking services for Hengfeng着我们传承进取，为后代继续创造可持续的财富。2021 年，作为深Bank's customers.化可持续发展的重要举措，我行着力从商业可持续、服务可持续、人才可持续和企业责任可持续四个支柱领域推进可持续发展，与客Forging a sustainable future在推动商业可持续方面，我行积极利用自身专长，为企业提供可持the legacy we want to create for the generations to come. In 2021, we续融资解决方案，帮助企业实现资源高效利用和向绿色低碳经济转reinforced our commitment to forging a sustainable future with our型。我行绿色信贷客户数量和额度在本年度也实现了双位数增长。customers, colleagues and communities, focusing on four strategic pillars,have been critical in guiding how we build our business and to framingnamely Drive Growth Sustainably, Keep Customers at the Centre, DevelopProfessionals of Principle and Uphold Corporate Responsibility.To help businesses advance responsibly, we provided sustainable ﬁnancingsolutions  to  support  our  clients  in  the  adoption  of  green  businesspractices in their transition to a low-carbon economy. We recordeddouble-digit year-on-year growth in both the number of clients taking upgreen loans and the value of loans provided.10共贡献了 3,751 个公益小时。matters, we also remained ﬁrm in our support of the more vulnerable inour community. In 2021, our people volunteered more than 3,751 hours艺术是人们对于社会价值观的文化反馈和审美体现，而可持续发展to community building and through our UOB Heartbeat Programme, we也成为当代艺术的一个不可或缺的宣言。为了激发更多对于艺术与contributed more than RMB440,000 to communities in need.可持续性之间的思考，我行也开展了一系列展览、工作坊、论坛等公众活动；并计划于 2022 年启动“大华银行校园水墨艺术大奖”，通Art, as a reflection of our society, plays an important role in inspiring过这一比赛培养年轻水墨艺术人才，促进这项艺术的创新和传承。and shaping thoughts and actions on sustainability. To promote deeperunderstanding of sustainability, we organised exhibitions, workshops andseminars to help the public explore the connection between art andsustainability. Collaborating with FutureLab, we announced the launch of纵观历史，变局永远存在。虽然全球疫情趋于缓和，各经济体逐步a campus edition of the UOB Art in Ink Awards in mainland China in 2022开放，然而地缘政治冲突也不断升级。因此，我们必须时刻留意态to encourage young talents to pursue their passion in ink art.势的演变。但我们坚信亚洲的前景是光明的。大华银行扎根于这片热土，我们了解这里商业和社区所拥有的韧性、力量和实力，可以令其塑造更If history has taught us anything, it is that uncertainty and volatility will美好的未来。而 2022 年 1 月正式生效的《区域全面经济伙伴关系协定》remain. Just as the outlook for the pandemic is improving and economies（RCEP），也必然进一步带动中国与东盟更持续深入的经贸交往。are reopening, geopolitical tensions are rising. We are monitoring theseConﬁdent of the region and our role in itdevelopments closely.However, we believe in the people and potential of the region. It is ourhome and we know first-hand the resilience, strength and abilities ourbusinesses and communities possess to build a better tomorrow forall. We are also positive that the Regional Comprehensive EconomicPartnership (RCEP), which came into force in January 2022, will strengthenregional connectivity further, especially between China and ASEAN.11董事长致辞
Chairman's Statement对于大华银行中国来说，我行将继续做好连接商机的桥梁，帮助企For UOB China, we are well-positioned to be the lynchpin to help capture业挖掘东盟的长期经济潜力。同时，大华银行中国强健的资产质量，the long-term opportunities of a resurgent ASEAN. We have been building a也为业务的可持续发展夯实了基础。我行近年来不断推动的战略转sustainable business with resilient asset quality. The ongoing transformation of型，和增资后的资本实力，也将支持我们与各方一起携手奋进、共our business, as well as the increased capital base provide us the foundation兴未来。致谢from which we can share a better future with our stakeholders.Acknowledgements大华银行 2021 年所取得的出色成就，离不开管理层及所有同事坚持UOB China's 2021 achievements would not have been possible without不懈的奉献、关爱、合作与正能量。感谢大家为客户和彼此提供了the  unwavering  commitment,  collaboration,  care  and  energy  of  our最坚实有力的支持。我也要感谢董事会一如既往的支持，带领我们people and Management. I thank them for giving so much of themselves取得业务的健康增长和各方的认可。in support of our customers and each other. I would also like to thank theBoard for its support and guidance as we achieved healthy growth and最后，我要感谢客户对于我行长期的信任与支持，并期待与您携手were recognised as the preeminent ASEAN bank by our stakeholders.共筑可持续未来。黄一宗大华银行（中国）有限公司董事长2022 年 3 月Finally, to our loyal customers and shareholders, thank you for your beliefin UOB China. I look forward to your continued support as UOB Chinafocuses on building a sustainable future for all.Wee Ee CheongChairmanMarch 2022公司信息
Corporate Information法定名称
大华银行（中国）有限公司法定代表人
黄一宗Registered Name
United Overseas Bank (China) LimitedLegal Representative
Wee Ee Cheong注册地址
上海市浦东新区银城路 116 号、128 号大华银行大厦三层、五层 501 室（实际四
层）、十三层（实际十二层）、十五层（实际十三层）、十六层（实际十四层）、
十七层（实际十五层）、十八层（实际十六层）、十九层（实际十七层）、
二十层（实际十八层） 
邮政编码：200120
电话 : (86) (21) 6061 8888
传真 : (86) (21) 6886 0908
SWIFT：UOVBCNSH
网址：UOBChina.com.cnRegistered Ofﬁce
Floor 3, Room 501 of Floor 5 (Actual Floor 4), Floor 13 (Actual Floor 12), Floor 15 
(Actual Floor 13), Floor 16 (Actual Floor 14), Floor 17 (Actual Floor 15), Floor 18 
(Actual Floor 16), Floor 19 (Actual Floor 17) and Floor 20 (Actual Floor 18), No 116 
and No 128, Yincheng Road, Pudong New Area 
Shanghai 200120 
Tel: (86) (21) 6061 8888
Fax: (86) (21) 6886 0908
SWIFT: UOVBCNSH
Website: UOBChina.com.cn公司成立日期
2007 年 12 月 18 日登记机关
上海市市场监督管理局企业法人统一社会信用代码
913100006694147236注册资本
人民币 750,000 万元股东 / 实际控制人
大华银行有限公司公司类型
有限责任公司（外国法人独资）监事
黄祖耀
詹道存 ( 副监事 )董事会
黄一宗 ( 董事长 )
符懋赞 ( 行长兼首席执行官 )
叶杨诗明
刘二飞 
吴玉华执行委员会
黄一宗 ( 主席 )
符懋赞 
叶杨诗明提名及薪酬委员会
刘二飞（主席）
黄一宗
叶杨诗明
吴玉华审计委员会
刘二飞（主席）
叶杨诗明
吴玉华关联交易控制委员会
吴玉华（主席）
叶杨诗明
刘二飞董事会风险管理委员会
叶杨诗明 ( 主席 ) 
刘二飞
吴玉华审计师
安永华明会计师事务所（特殊普通合伙）上海分所Date of Incorporation
18 December 2007Registration Authority
Shanghai Administration for Market RegulationUniﬁed Social Credit Code 
913100006694147236Paid Up Share Capital
RMB 7,500,000,000Shareholder/Actual Controller 
United Overseas Bank LimitedType of Company
Limited Company (Wholly Foreign-owned)Supervisors
Wee Cho Yaw
Cham Tao Soon (Deputy Supervisor)Board of Directors
Wee Ee Cheong (Chairman)
Peter Foo Moo Tan (President and CEO)
Christine Ip
Liu Erh Fei 
Wu Yu HuaExecutive Committee
Wee Ee Cheong (Chairman)
Peter Foo Moo Tan 
Christine IpNominating and Remuneration Committee
Liu Erh Fei  (Chairman)
Wee Ee Cheong
Christine Ip
Wu Yu HuaAudit Committee
Liu Erh Fei (Chairman) 
Christine Ip
Wu Yu HuaConnected Transactions Control Committee
Wu Yu Hua (Chairman) 
Christine Ip
Liu Erh FeiBoard Risk Management Committee
Christine Ip (Chairman) 
Liu Erh Fei
Wu Yu HuaAuditors
Ernst & Young Hua Ming (LLP) Shanghai Ofﬁce1213监事
Supervisor黄祖耀Wee Cho Yaw监事Supervisor93 岁，自 2007 年 10 月 30 日起担任大华银行（中
国）的监事。黄博士是一位拥有 60 多年经验的杰出银行
家，他在银行、保险、房地产及酒店业都拥
有丰富经验。由于他的商业成就及对教育事
业、社区福利及商界的支持，他被授予多个
国家和地区的奖项和荣誉。黄博士是大华银行（泰国）的董事会主席以
及大华银行及大华银行（马来西亚）的荣誉
主席兼名誉顾问。黄博士现任新加坡上市公司大华保险、华业
集团、新加坡置地（原名为联合工业）及虎
豹企业的董事会主席。他同时也是泛太平洋
酒店集团、滨海中心控股及黄氏基金的董事
会主席。Dr  Wee,  93,  was  appointed  as  Supervisor  of 
United Overseas Bank (China) on 30 October 
2007.A  distinguished  banker  with  more  than  60 
years'  experience,  Dr  Wee  is  a  veteran  in  the 
banking, insurance, real estate and hospitality 
industries. He was conferred numerous awards 
and accolades at the national and regional level 
for his business achievements and support of 
education, community welfare and the business 
community.Dr Wee is the Chairman of United Overseas Bank 
(Thai) Public Company and the Chairman Emeritus 
and Honorary Adviser of United Overseas Bank 
and also of United Overseas Bank (Malaysia).He is the current Chairman of United Overseas 
Insurance, UOL Group, Singapore Land Group 
(formerly known as United Industrial Corporation) 
and  Haw  Par  Corporation  all  of  which  are 
public companies listed on the Singapore Stock 
Exchange.  He  also  serves  as  Chairman  of  Pan 
Paciﬁc Hotels Group, Marina Centre Holdings and 
Wee Foundation.黄博士是中正中学的校友及董事会主席。他
曾任职于多家学校管理委员会及南洋大学和
新加坡国立大学理事会。他目前担任南洋理
工大学的名誉副校长。他被新加坡国立大学
和南洋理工大学授予荣誉文学博士学位。黄博士是新加坡中华总商会、新加坡宗乡会
馆联合总会及新加坡福建会馆的名誉会长。Dr  Wee  is  an  alumni  and  Chairman  of  Chung 
Cheng High School. He has served on numerous 
school  management  committees  and  the 
Councils of the Nanyang University and National 
University of Singapore (NUS). He is currently a 
Pro-Chancellor of the Nanyang Technological 
University  (NTU).  He  has  been  conferred 
Honorary Doctor of Letters by NUS and NTU.黄博士于 2001 年和 1990 年两度荣获新加坡
商业颁奖礼“年度杰出商人奖”。他于 2006 年
荣获首届“瑞信—安永终身成就奖”。2009 年，
《亚洲银行家》授予其终身成就奖。为了表
彰黄博士在商界的杰出成就，2017 年他获颁
“亚细安商业奖”的传承奖。此外，黄博士获新加坡总统颁发象征新加坡
最高荣耀的新加坡国庆“殊功勋章”（2011 年
度），以表彰其对新加坡经济、教育和社区
发展的杰出贡献。He is the Honorary President of the Singapore 
Chinese  Chamber  of  Commerce  &  Industry, 
S i n g a p o re   Fe d e rat i o n   o f   C h i n e s e   C l a n 
Associations and Singapore Hokkien Huay Kuan.Dr  Wee  was  named  Businessman  of  the  Year 
twice at the Singapore Business Awards in 2001 
and  1990.  He  received  the  inaugural  Credit 
Suisse-Ernst  &  Young  Lifetime  Achievement 
Award in 2006 and The Asian Banker Lifetime 
Achievement Award in 2009. In recognition of his 
business achievements in the region, Dr Wee was 
conferred the Legacy Award for Singapore at the 
ASEAN Business Awards 2017.Dr Wee received the Distinguished Service Order, 
Singapore's highest National Day Award for 2011 
from the President of Singapore in recognition of 
his outstanding contributions to the economic, 
education, social and community development 
ﬁelds in Singapore.1415副监事
Deputy Supervisor詹道存Cham Tao Soon副监事Deputy Supervisor82 岁，自 2017 年 1 月 1 日起担任大华银行 ( 中
国 ) 副监事之职。詹教授曾于 2008 年至 2016
年期间担任本行独立及非执行董事。詹教授是新加坡 NSL、三盅两件集团及新加
坡铁路学院董事长。他还是 MFS  科技、维信
集团、大华银行及其附属公司远东银行的前
董事。作为新加坡教育领域的杰出人物，詹教授是
新加坡新跃社科大学的前名誉校长和托管理
事会主席，也是新加坡南洋理工大学的创校
校长。2003 年，詹教授获象征新加坡最高荣
耀的新加坡国庆“殊功勋章”，以表彰其在教
育领域的杰出贡献。作为一名经验丰富的专业工程师，詹教授拥
有马来亚大学土木工程学学士荣誉学位、伦
敦大学数学理学学士荣誉学位和英国剑桥大
学流体力学博士学位。他也是新加坡工程师
协会、新加坡工程院、英国皇家工程院、英
国机械工程师学会的资深会员，以及瑞典皇
家工程科学院外籍院士。Prof  Cham,  82,  was  appointed  as  the  Deputy 
Supervisor of United Overseas Bank (China) with 
effective from 1 January 2017. Prof Cham was a 
non-executive and independent director of the 
Bank from 2008 to 2016.Prof  Cham  is  the  Chairman  of  NSL,  Soup 
Restaurant  and  Singapore  Rail  Academy.  He 
is a former director of MFS Technology, WBL 
Corporation  and  UOB  and  its  subsidiary,  Far 
Eastern Bank.A prominent figure in the Singapore education 
scene, Prof Cham is the former Chancellor of 
Singapore  University  of  Social  Sciences  and 
Chairman of its Board of Trustees, and was the 
founding President of Nanyang Technological 
University. For his outstanding contributions to 
education, he was conferred the Distinguished 
Service Order, Singapore's highest National Day 
Award, in 2003.An  engineer  by  training,  Prof  Cham  holds  a 
Bachelor of Engineering (Civil, Hons) from the 
University  of  Malaya,  a  Bachelor  of  Science 
in Mathematics (Hons) from the University of 
London  and  a  Doctor  of  Philosophy  in  Fluid 
Mechanics from the University of Cambridge, 
United  Kingdom.  He  is  also  a  Fellow  of  the 
Institution  of  Engineers,  Singapore,  Academy 
of  Engineering,  Singapore,  Royal  Academy  of 
Engineering, United Kingdom and Institution of 
Mechanical Engineers, United Kingdom and a 
foreign member of Royal Swedish Academy of 
Engineering Sciences.董事会
Board of Directors黄一宗Wee Ee Cheong董事长
Chairman69 岁，2007 年12 月5 日受委任为大华银行（中国）
董事会董事长、非执行非独立董事，同时也是
本行执行委员会主席和提名及薪酬委员会成员。黄先生是一位拥有 40 余年经验的职业银行家，
他于 1979 年加入大华银行，并自 1990 年起担任
大华银行董事。目前担任大华银行董事局副主
席兼总裁。黄先生同时也是大华保险的董事与大华银行（马
来西亚）及大华银行（泰国）的董事局副主席。
他还兼任大华银行（印度尼西亚）的监事长，
并曾任远东银行的董事。黄先生积极参与促进行业及社区发展，是新加
坡银行公会主席以及新加坡银行与金融学院理
事会副主席。他亦是新中教育基金会理事会、
印尼 - 新加坡商业理事会的成员，以及新加坡
中华总商会名誉理事。此前，他也曾担任新加
坡建屋发展局的副主席、新加坡港务局、华业
集团、泛太平洋酒店集团和大华证券的董事，
以及 Visa AP 资深客户理事会成员。黄先生热衷艺术事业，是南洋艺术学院的赞助
人，也是黄氏基金的董事。鉴于他对金融业的贡献，2013 年他荣获新加坡
政府颁发的“公共服务星章”。黄一宗先生拥有华盛顿特区美国大学理学学士
（工商管理）学位和文学硕士（应用经济学）学位。Mr Wee, 69, was appointed as director and Chairman 
of the Bank on 5 December 2007. A non-executive and 
non-independent director, he is the Chairman of the 
Executive Committee and a member of the Nominating 
and Remuneration Committee.A career banker with more than 40 years' experience in 
the UOB Group, Mr Wee joined UOB in 1979 and has 
been a director of UOB since 1990. He is currently the 
Deputy Chairman and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of UOB.He also holds directorships in United Overseas 
Insurance, United Overseas Bank (Malaysia) (Deputy 
Chairman) and United Overseas Bank (Thai) Public 
Company (Deputy Chairman). He is the President 
Commissioner of PT Bank UOB Indonesia. Mr Wee was 
also formerly a director of Far Eastern Bank.Active in industry and community development, Mr 
Wee serves as Chairman of The Association of Banks 
in Singapore and is vice chairman of The Institute of 
Banking and Finance. He is also a member of the Board 
of Governors of the Singapore-China Foundation, 
Indonesia-Singapore Business Council and Honorary 
Council Member of the Singapore Chinese Chamber 
of Commerce and Industry. He was previously Deputy 
Chairman of the Housing and Development Board, a 
director of the Port of Singapore Authority, UOL Group, 
Pan Pacific Hotels Group and United International 
Securities, and a member of Visa AP Senior Client 
Council.A keen art enthusiast, Mr Wee is the Patron of the 
Nanyang Academy of Fine Arts. He is also a director of 
the Wee Foundation.In 2013, he was awarded the Singapore Public Service 
Star by the Singapore Government for his contributions 
to the ﬁnancial industry.Mr Wee holds a Bachelor of Science (Business 
Administration) and a Master of Arts (Applied 
Economics) from American University, Washington, DC.1617董事会
Board of Directors符懋赞Peter FOO Moo Tan
行长兼首席执行官
President and Chief
Executive Ofﬁcer59 岁，于 2016 年 12 月出任大华银行中国行长
兼首席执行官一职，并于 2017 年 1 月 18 日受
委任加入大华银行中国董事会。作为大华银行
中国董事会执行董事，他也是执行委员会成员。Mr Foo, 59, was appointed President and Chief 
Executive Officer (CEO) in December 2016 and a 
director of the Board of UOB China on 18 January 2017. 
An executive and non-independent director, he is a 
member of UOB China's Executive Committee.符先生于 2011 年加入大华银行，主管资金和环
球金融部海外分支机构业务，并于 2012 年开
始担任大华银行泰国行长兼首席执行官一职。符先生拥有 30 多年银行业从业经验。加入大
华银行之前，符先生在富通银行任职 11 年，
期间出任多个管理职位，包括新加坡分行首
席执行官、亚太董事会成员、私人银行新加
坡董事总经理以及新加坡分行环球金融部主
管。 此 前， 他 的 职 业 经 历 还 包 括 于 1988 至
2000 年间，先后在美国纽约化学银行，美国
银行以及奥地利信贷银行担任管理职务。符
先生的职业生涯始于 1987 年，作为管理培训
生加入壳牌公司新加坡分公司。符先生是现任恒丰银行非执行董事，以及亚洲
影响力投资基金公司 (AIIF Capital Partners Limited)
董事。同时，他也是特许金融分析师 (CFA) 协会
资本市场政策委员会的委员。符先生也曾担任
国际金融市场协会（ACI）的行政委员会成员及
东亚区代表 , 新加坡 CFA 学会（CFA Singapore）
董事会成员 , 新加坡银行公会 (ABS) 委员以及淡
马锡控股旗下新加坡交易所（SGX）上市公司
新源基础设施信托的独立董事。自履职以来，符先生运用其丰富的国际银行
管理经验，积极带领大华银行中国推动中国
与东盟在经贸领域的互联互通，踊跃参与上
海国际金融中心建设。为表彰他对上海国际
金融中心建设所做出的积极贡献，符先生在
新华社主办的 2020“沪上金融家”评选中，荣
膺 2020 沪上金融行业创新人物。基于其多年
深度参与场外交易市场及国际主要金融衍生
品和期货市场的业务经验，符先生自 2021 年
9 月起，被中国金融期货交易所授聘为第一届
市场发展咨询委员会委员。Mr Foo joined UOB in 2011 as the Head of the Group's 
Treasury and Global Markets business for its overseas 
subsidiaries and branches. He also served as President 
and CEO of UOB Thai from 2012.Mr Foo has more than 30 years of experience in 
banking and financial markets. Prior to joining 
UOB,  he  served  for  11  years  at  Fortis  Bank, 
S.A./N.V. Singapore, where he assumed many 
management roles including the CEO, Asia Paciﬁc 
Management Board member, Managing Director 
of Private Banking and Head of Global Markets. 
Mr Foo's previous professional experience also 
includes  holding  various  executive  positions 
at Bank Austria Creditanstalt, Bank of America, 
and Chemical Bank between 1988 and 2000. Mr 
Foo  embarked  on  the  career  as  management 
associate with Shell Singapore in 1987.Mr Foo is a non-executive director of Hengfeng 
Bank and the Director of AIIF Capital Partners 
Limited,  the  general  partner  of  Asia  Impact 
Investment  Fund  I  L.P.  He  is  also  a  Council 
Member  of  Capital  Markets  Policy  Council 
(CMPC) of CFA Institute. Previously, he served 
as  the  Executive  Committee  Member  and 
Regional Representative of South East Asia of 
ACI-The Financial Markets Association, Board 
Member of CFA Singapore, Council Member of 
the Association of Banks in Singapore and an 
independent director of SGX listed/Temasek's 
CitySpring Infrastructure Investment Trust.Tapping his international banking experience, 
M r   F o o   l e a d s   U O B   C h i n a   t o   p r o m o t e 
connectivity  between  China  and  ASEAN  and 
contribute  to  Shanghai's  development  as  an 
international financial centre. In recognition of 
his contribution, Mr Foo was awarded as a 2020 
Shanghai Financial Industry Innovation Figure at 
the Shanghai Financiers Awards hosted by Xinhua 
News  Agency.  With  his  deep  knowledge  and 
understanding on over-the-counter trades and 
international ﬁnancial derivative and commodity 
markets, Mr Foo is also appointed as the member 
of  the  first  Market  Development  Advisory 
Committee by China Financial Futures Exchange 
effective from September 2021.符先生拥有新加坡国立大学房地产管理学士
荣誉学位，也是一名特许金融分析师。Mr Foo holds a Bachelor of Estate Management 
(Hons) from the National University of Singapore 
and is a Chartered Financial Analyst.叶杨诗明
Christine Ip58 岁，2011 年 8 月 22 日受委任加入董事会。
作为非执行非独立董事，她同时也是本行董
事会风险管理委员会主席以及执行委员会、
审计委员会、提名及薪酬委员会和关联交易
控制委员会成员。叶杨女士于 2011 年加入大华银行，并于 2011
年 12 月被委任为大华银行香港分行首席执行
官，拥有 30 多年的个人银行及企业银行从业
经验。叶杨女士自 2016 年 7 月 1 日起担任大
华银行大中华地区首席执行官，负责大中华
业务发展策略。在加入大华银行之前，叶杨女士曾在中国香
港、美国、加拿大、新加坡和中国内地等地
区担任过产品开发、销售管理、客户管理和
风险管理等一系列高级管理层职位。叶杨女士同时也是数码通电讯集团有限公司
的独立非执行董事。鉴于其在金融行业中的卓越成就，叶杨女士
于 2008 年荣获亚洲零售商会议颁发的“全球
零售银行家领导奖”，并被中国杰出女企业家
联谊会评选为“2012 年中国百名杰出女企业家”。叶杨女士拥有香港大学文学学士学位及香港
科技大学工商管理硕士学位。Mrs  Ip,  58,  was  appointed  to  the  Board  on 
22  August  2011.  A  non-executive  and  non-
independent director, she is the Chairman of 
the Bank's Board Risk Management Committee 
and a member of the Bank's Executive, Audit, 
Nominating and Remuneration, and Connected 
Transactions Control Committees.A  veteran  banker  with  more  than  30  years' 
experience  in  both  consumer  and  corporate 
banking,  Mrs  Ip  joined  UOB  in  2011  and  was 
appointed as Chief Executive Officer of UOB 
Hong Kong Branch in December 2011. Mrs Ip was 
appointed as Chief Executive Officer for UOB 
Greater China with effect from 1 July 2016, and 
is responsible for developing UOB's business in 
Greater China.Prior to joining UOB, Mrs Ip held several senior 
management  positions  in  product  and  sales 
management, customer segment management 
and risk management in Hong Kong, the United 
States, Canada, Singapore and Mainland China.She  is  also  an  independent  non-executive 
director  of  SmarTone  Telecommunications 
Holdings Limited.In  recognition  of  her  achievements,  Mrs  Ip 
received  the  Asia  Retail  Congress  Award  for 
Best  International  Retail  Banker  in  2008  and 
was named as one of the top 100 outstanding 
Chinese businesswomen in the Greater China 
region in 2012 by the China Outstanding Female 
Entrepreneurs Association.Mrs  Ip  holds  a  Bachelor  of  Arts  from  the 
University of Hong Kong and a Master of Business 
Administration from the Hong Kong University of 
Science and Technology.1819董事会
Board of Directors63 岁，2017 年 1 月 20 日受委任加入董事会。
作为独立董事，他同时也是本行审计委员会
和提名及薪酬委员会主席，以及关联交易控
制委员会和董事会风险管理委员会成员。刘先生现任亚投资本的创始合伙人及首席执
行官，同时也担任信泰资本管理有限公司董
事。刘先生还在招商永隆银行担任独立董事
职务。刘二飞
Liu Erh Fei刘先生曾担任美林中国区主席及美银美林中
国区总经理。他还曾在高盛集团、摩根士丹利、
所罗门美邦国际、东方汇理银行担任高层。刘 先 生 拥 有 布 兰 迪 斯 大 学 经 济 学 和 国 际 关
系 学 士 学 位， 及 哈 佛 商 学 院 工 商 管 理 学 硕
士学位。Mr Liu, 63, was appointed to the Board on 20 
January 2017. As an independent director, he is 
the Chairman of the Audit and Nominating and 
Remuneration Committees, and a member of the 
Connected Transactions Control and Board Risk 
Management Committees.Mr Liu is currently the founding partner and Chief 
Executive Officer of Asia Investment Capital. 
He also serves as a director of Cindat Capital 
Management Limited, as well as an independent 
director for CMB Wing Lung Bank Limited.Mr  Liu  was  formerly  the  Chairman  of  Merrill 
Lynch China and Country Executive of Bank of 
America Merrill Lynch. He had previously worked 
as head of Asia or China for Goldman Sachs, 
Morgan Stanley, Smith Barney and Indosuez.He holds a Bachelor of Arts in Economics and 
International Relations from Brandeis University, 
and a Master of Business Administration from 
Harvard Business School.吴玉华Wu Yu Hua（Werner）63 岁，2018 年 8 月 29 日受委任加入董事会。
作为独立董事，他同时也是本行关联交易控
制委员会主席，及审计委员会、提名及薪酬
委员会和董事会风险管理委员会成员。吴玉华教授现任中国留学人才发展基金会副
理事长、上海市张江科技园发展有限公司常
务总裁、长三角科技城联合创始人兼执行总
裁、上海华夏文化经济促进会副会长、德国
联邦经济发展和对外贸易协会新丝绸之路委
员会全球副理事长兼中国区理事长，德意志
联邦德中联合总会全球董事会副主席兼中国
区主席。吴玉华教授曾任宝钢集团高层管理职务包括
宝钢集团驻欧洲非洲大区首席代表兼总经理、
战略与投资管理主管、集团首席翻译；曾任
德国西门子集团高层管理职务包括西门子（中
国）有限公司资深副总裁、西门子全球房地
资产集团中国区投资副总裁和西门子世博项
目中心总裁；曾任法国阿尔斯通集团高层管
理职务包括技术服务中国区总裁；还曾任中
国外商投资企业协会投资性公司工作委员会
首届办公室主任。吴玉华教授拥有高级经济师职称、德国经济
学硕士学位、工商管理博士学位。2019 年，
他被上海外国语大学聘任为客座教授，同年，
被复旦大学聘任为金融研究中心兼职研究员；
2020 年，吴玉华教授被任命为东华大学人工
智能研究院理事会理事长；2021 年，被续聘
为上海海洋大学兼职教授。Prof  Werner  Wu,  63,  was  appointed  to  the 
Board on 29 August 2018. As an independent 
director, he is the Chairman of the Connected 
Transactions Control Committee, and a member 
of the Audit, Nominating and Remuneration and 
Board Risk Management Committees.Prof Werner Wu is currently Executive President 
o f   S h a n g h a i   Z h a n g j i a n g   H i g h - te c h   Pa r k 
Development Company Limited, Co-founder and 
Executive President of Shanghai Yangtze River 
Delta Sci-tech City, Vice Chairman of Shanghai 
Huaxia  Culture  and  Economy  Promotion 
Association, Vice President of the New Silk Road 
Committee and President of China Region of 
the German Federal Association for economic 
development  and  foreign  trade,  Global  Vice 
Chairman of the German Federal Association of 
German-Chinese Alliance.Prof Werner Wu formerly served as the Chief 
Representative and General Manager for Europe 
and  Africa  Regions,  Director  of  Corporate 
Strategy  and  Investment  Management,  and 
Chief Translator for China Baosteel Group. He 
took  senior  positions  in  Siemens  worldwide, 
including Senior Vice President of Siemens (China) 
Company  Limited,  Executive  Vice  President 
of Siemens Real Estate Investment China and 
President of Siemens World Expo Programme 
Centre. He also held senior positions in ALSTOM 
Group including President of technical services 
in China. Prof Werner Wu assumed the position 
of Director of Executive Committee of Foreign 
Invested  Companies  of  China  Association  of 
Enterprises with Foreign Investment.Prof Werner Wu is a Certiﬁed Senior Economist in 
China. He holds a Master's Degree in Economics 
from German Siegen University and a DBA. In 
2019,  Prof  Werner  Wu  was  appointed  as  the 
guest professor of Shanghai International Studies 
University and as the Adjunct Researcher of the 
Financial Research Center of Fudan University. In 
2020, Prof Werner Wu was ofﬁcially nominated as 
Chairman of the Council of Artiﬁcial Intelligence 
Research Institute of Donghua University. In 2021, 
Prof Werner Wu was reappointed as a part-time 
professor of Shanghai Ocean University.2021大华银行中国组织架构图
UOB China Organisation Chart 2021监事Supervisors股东Shareholder行长办公室
CEO Office董事会Board of Directors行长兼首席执行官
President and CEO集团合规Group Compliance审计委员会Audit Committee关联交易控制委员会Connected Transactions  Control Committee操作风险管理委员会Operational Risk Management Committee提名及薪酬委员会Nominating and Remuneration Committee董事会风险管理委员会Board Risk Management Committee执行委员会Executive Committee消费者权益保护委员会Consumer Rights Protection Committee风险与资本委员会Risk and Capital Committee信息科技委员会Information and Technology Committee资产负债委员会Asset and Liability Committee管理委员会Management Committee信贷委员会In-Country Credit Committee外国直接投资咨询Foreign Direct Investment Advisory项目管理办公室Transformation Office北京分行
北京分行
北京分行Beijing
Beijing
Beijing天津分行Tianjin沈阳分行
Shenyang重庆分行
Chongqing成都分行
Chengdu昆明分行
Kunming厦门分行
Xiamen上海分行
Shanghai杭州分行
Hangzhou苏州分行
Suzhou深圳分行
Shenzhen广州分行
Guangzhou中山分行
Zhongshan上海徐家汇支行Xujiahui上海自贸试验区支行Shanghai Pilot FreeTrade Zone上海静安支行Jing'An个人金融服务Personal Financial Services企业银行Corporate Banking商业银行Commercial Banking交易银行Transaction Banking金融机构Financial Institutions Group跨国企业银行Multinational Corporate债务资本市场Debt Capital Markets批发银行Wholesale Banking财富管理Wealth Management总行行业事业部
Industry Banker分行商业银行Commercial Banking (Branches)贸易融资销售及咨询Trade Sales and Advisory零售业务销售Sales and Distribution信贷分析部
Credit Analysis信贷分析Credit Analysts抵押贷款Secured Lending外商投资企业部
 Global Subsidiary产品行销Product Sales Specialists业务管控及支持Business Controls andAdministration跨国公司企业部Multinational CorporateTeam客户拓展和战略合作部
Partnership and Acquisition中国企业部China Corporation市场营销、数字业务及战略Marketing, Digital andStrategy业务计划、数据分析和风险管理Business Management,Data Analyticsand Credit Assurance企业财富管理Corporate WealthManagement环球业务拓展
China GlobalBusiness Development业务助理Business Associate现金管理销售及咨询Cash Management
Sales and Advisory贸易融资产品管理Trade Product Management现金产品管理Cash Product Management负债产品管理Liability Product Management银行同业Bank非银行金融机构
Non-Bank FinancialInsititutions房地产基金及金融投资者Property Funds and
Financial Sponsors结构性贸易及商品融资Structured Trade and
Commodity Finance客户实施及服务Client Fulfillment and Service批发银行战略及规划部
Business Management批发银行部主管办公室Wholesale BankingHead Office环球金融部Global Markets投资组合与流动性管理Portfolio andLiquidity Management私人财富管理部
Private Wealth
Management环球市场交易Global Markets Trading环球市场产品结构Global Markets Structure环球市场销售Global Markets Sales业务管理Business Management合规Compliance财务及企业服务Finance andCorporate Services科技及营运Technology and 
Operations (T&O)人力资源Human Resources (HR)风险管理Risk Management企业银行信贷Corporate Credit商业银行信贷Commercial Credit法律与秘书Legal and Secretariat渠道及数字化Channels and Digitalisation反洗钱/反恐怖融资及制裁
Anti-Money Laundering / 
Counter Terrorism Financing财务
Finance零售银行业务营运
Retail Operations企业房地产管理部Corporate Real Estate Services批发银行业务营运
Wholesale Operations科技与营运保障Technology and OperationsAssurance信息科技服务Business TechnologyServices共享设施服务Shared InfrastructureServices批发银行合规Wholesale BankingCompliance / Global MarketsCompliance Advisory零售银行合规
Retail BankingCompliance Advisory综合合规Generals Compliance分行合规Local Compliance22企业银行信贷
Corporate Credit信贷特管Special Asset Management法律
Legal秘书Secretariat金融科技，生态圈及创新O2O, Fintech,Ecosystem and Innovation客户体验及权益Customer Experienceand Advocacy科技与营运
行政与财务
T&O AdminSupport and Finance科技及营运服务管理Business T&O Management信息安全Information Security分行运营管理Branch OperationsManagement人才与组织发展Talent and OrganisationDevelopment绩效与薪酬Rewards人力资源服务HR Services人力资源业务伙伴HR Business
Management公司人力资源Integrated Corporate HR分行人力资源管理Branch HR Management信贷风险管理Credit Risk Management资产负债风险管理
Balance Sheet RiskManagement市场风险管理及监控Market Risk Managementand Product Control操作风险管理
Operational RiskManagement欺诈风险管理Integrated FraudManagement信息科技风险管理与全面风险策略Technology Risk Managementand Risk Strategy策略通讯与品牌部Strategic Communicationsand Brand理财事业部Wealth Governance内部审计Internal Audit常规审计General Audit资讯科技审计Technology Audit23管理层报告
2021 in Review为客户打造诚挚信赖的财富管理服务
Personalising Wealth Solutions for Customers' Different Life Stages and Lifestyles2021 年，全球经济和市场仍在疫情余波的笼罩之下，我行也在挑战中积极把握财富管理业务机遇，完善合作伙伴生态，迎来发展的新高点。我行也持续推进本土战略合作，与长期战略合作伙伴恒丰银行就个人金融业务等签署合作备忘录，通过贡献并发挥自身优势，为恒丰银行及
其个人客户提供 “新加坡一站通”环球金融服务、私人财富管理等多方位业务支持。双方也将在品牌市场活动、科技解决方案、人员培训交
流等领域开展深入合作。In 2021, the global economy and ﬁnancial markets were still dealing with the repercussions of the prolonged pandemic. Amid the external challenges, we 
scaled up our retail business by actively seizing opportunities in wealth management and deepening our partnership ecosystem.We also signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with our strategic partner, Hengfeng Bank, to draw on our network strengths to provide one-
stop China-Singapore ﬁnancial services, as well as global investment and private banking services for Hengfeng Bank's customers. We will also explore 
collaborations in retail marketing, ﬁnancial technology solutions and people development.“风险为先”投资理念，持续为高净值人群提供优质的投资建议作为客户身边坚实可靠的财富伙伴，我行整合银行资源，围绕高净
值人群独特的“企业、家庭、个人”财富目标，采用本行独有的“核心
+ 战术”科学资产配置方式为客户定制组合投资策略，提供优质可靠
的投资咨询，并确保客户在做投资决策时，充分了解其回报及风险。值得注意的是，我行在战术资产类别 “中期投资机会”项下推出的欧
洲股票、美国金融业股票、环球优质股票，以及在“长期趋势机会”
项下推出“人工智能”、可持续发展等区域及主题的产品，均取得了
良好的年度收益。为客户赋能珍贵而稀缺的资源我行精选优质全球资源，与合作伙伴携手打造金融、医疗、教育高
端资源网络，为客户赋能珍贵而稀缺的资源。在下一代传承领域多年深耕发展的基础上，我行以从教育金融到覆
盖各学段的独家教育实践项目（小小银行家、未来领行家课程、菁
英培优计划等）为抓手，打造出的一站式优势教育金融服务已成为
领先市场的优势项目，帮助众多“下一代”为未来积蓄力量和优势。Helping our customers maximise their wealth potential through our Risk-
First approach2021 年，我行更优化了“名校校长面对面”项目，让“家长走进知名院校”
与校长、专家深入交流，助力家长获得优势，策略规划。As our customers' trusted ﬁnancial steward, we provide them with high-
quality and reliable wealth advisory and solutions to help them achieve 
business, family and personal goals. Using our Risk-First approach, we help 
our customers protect their assets through core strategies before growing 
their wealth with tactical investments. This approach also ensures that 
our customers understand the risks ahead of returns before making any 
investment decisions.In 2021, we rolled out a multitude of products for tactical investments, 
including European equities, United States financial sector equities and 
high-quality equities global that offer returns over the medium term. 
We also recommended opportunities in megatrends such as artificial 
intelligence and sustainability so that our customers could beneﬁt from 
long-term growth drivers and diversify their investments for optimal 
annual returns.Exclusive services and beneﬁts essential to our customers' lifestylesWe work closely with our ecosystem partners to offer exclusive privileges, 
including those in high-end ﬁnancial, medical and education services, to 
meet customers' lifestyle needs.Over the years, we have been supporting our customers in nurturing 
their next generation. This includes ﬁnancial planning for their children's 
education as well as offering a range of development programmes, such 
as Junior Bankers, Future Leaders and the Elite Youths for children of 
different ages. Our one-stop education service offering has become our 
signature, opening doors to future opportunities for the young.2021 年，我行持续深化引领高端女性个人财富管理服务价值和体
验。除了为「尊享理财 」·  晶璨高端女性客户群体严选、定制符
合其偏好和需求的理财产品和财富管理方案外，我行发挥网络优
势打造了“她理财”系列财富活动，整合各领域专家助力高端女性
构筑财富安全岛。此外，我行联合艺术、生活美学等领域的顶尖
合作伙伴，打造系列专属高端女性活动，成就女性理想生活的无
限精彩。晶璨客户在专属定制旅行中体验音钵疗愈
Our women customers experiencing sound therapy 
at a customised metal wellness experience under 
the Lady's Programme客户走进上海顶尖学校 — 平和双语
Customers visiting the Shanghai Pinghe School, a leader in bilingual 
education in ShanghaiIn 2021, we upgraded our Headmasters' Talk Series programme to include 
school tours. We invited customers to visit well-known local schools and to 
have in-depth discussions with school principals and education experts. This 
enabled them to make well-informed decisions for their children's education.We also deepened our Lady's Programme to offer more personalised 
and progressive solutions to affluent women customers. In addition to 
rolling out ﬁnancial products suitable for their risk appetites and needs, 
in 2021 we organised a series of wealth talks and workshops with experts 
in various ﬁelds to help our women customers preserve and grow their 
wealth wisely. We also collaborated with various service providers to host 
a number of exclusive lifestyle events to cater to different interests.2425管理层报告
2021 in Review以客户为中心创新，全面提升客户体验我行始终以客户需求为中心，在充分了解客户期待和挑战后，为其
提供可靠的财富建议的同时，创造更舒适的银行体验。为了给我行客户提供更优质丰富的线上服务与体验，我行将原有直
销银行全新升级为“大华银行尊享财富”移动应用。这一数字应用于
2021 年 10 月 12 日正式发布。升级后，客户可以通过手机银行查询 I 类借记卡账户、II/III 类电子
账户资产；并进行环球基金、国内基金、香港互认基金的交易申请
和持仓查询；同时也支持保险产品、结构性票据与国内信托的持仓
查询。同时，我行抓住短视频传播浪潮，推出“大华银行尊享财富”视频号，
进一步提升客户沟通体验。通过“大华投资说”等一系列生动有趣的
短视频，让客户更乐于、更便捷地获取市场资讯、权益和服务信息。尊享财富手机银行App主界面
The UOB China Privilege Banking App我行也因此收获了业界肯定，包括在第四届零售银行领导者年会，
荣获了 “2021 年零售银行客户体验奖”。短视频创作展现我行分支行服务团队和核心服务价值
We showcased our retail service team and wealth management 
centres using short videos.Innovating for a better customer experienceOur  customers  are  at  the  centre  of  what  we  do.  With  our  deep 
understanding on their expectations and challenges, we are committed to 
creating and offering a more accessible and engaging banking experience.In 2021, we revamped our Direct Banking App to become the UOB China 
Privilege Banking App. The new mobile app was ofﬁcially launched on 12 
October 2021.With the upgraded mobile app, our customers can view both their Type I 
debit card accounts and Type II/III digital accounts, check their insurance, 
structured notes and unit trust portfolios, as well as purchase global, 
domestic funds and recognised Hong Kong funds.To level up our social media engagement with customers, we capitalised 
on the short-form video trend to launch our UOB China Retail Banking 
WeChat video account. We rolled out a series of short videos to share 
our market and investment insights, as well as special deals and privileges 
in a more fun and engaging way.Our efforts during the year were recognised with various industry awards, 
including the Best Annual Award for Outstanding Experience of Retail 
Banking at the Retail Banking Leader Forum 2021.帮助客户无缝对接集团区域网络，提供创新金融方案，助力企业拓展跨境业务
Providing Customers with Seamless Connectivity and Progressive Cross-border Solutions Across Our Network2021 年，在新冠疫情反复和国际贸易格局变动中，中国与东盟经济交互热度不减，双方互为第一大贸易伙伴。同时，2022 年 1 月生效的《区
域全年经济伙伴关系协定》(RCEP) 将使中国与东盟国家的合作持续加强。依托大华银行集团在东盟广泛的网络分布，我行致力于帮助企业抓住更多区域发展机遇，拓宽海内外业务。我行也继续深化跨境金融合作生
态系统，满足客户在区域业务中的多元金融需求，进而推动中国和东盟之间的贸易和投资，为区域金融一体化与合作做出贡献。Bilateral trade between ASEAN and China has been increasing steadily despite disruptions from the pandemic and uneven trade recovery globally. In 
2021, ASEAN and China were each other's largest trading partner. The Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP), which came into force in 
January 2022, is expected to strengthen regional connectivity further.Tapping UOB Group's extensive network in ASEAN, UOB China is committed to helping our clients seize opportunities and expand their business 
at home and abroad. We continually deepen our cross-border solutions and partnership ecosystems to meet clients' funding and foreign exchange 
needs. In doing so, we also help to facilitate trade and investment ﬂows between China and ASEAN and contribute to regional ﬁnancial integration and 
cooperation.推出创新跨境解决方案，高效满足实体经济的资金需求2021 年，根据企业实际资金和货币需求，我行为其定制东南亚区域
跨境双向扫款和资金集中管理方案，以及个性化的跨境人民币贸易
融资方案。我行的资金池包括跨境人民币资金池、跨境外币资金池及本外币一
体化跨境资金池，可基于企业不同的币种需求，帮助跨国企业在境
内外开展跨境资金余缺调剂和统一管理。例如，为帮助某知名服务业跨国企业拓展市场，我行为其定制了跨
境人民币双向扫款业务。对该企业而言，在中国大陆和海外之间实
现有效的跨境资金集中是急需解决的问题。我行扫款方案令客户提
高了各区域间资金流动效率，提升其资金的流动性。我行还为某健康保健业领先企业提供了定制化资金流动管理解决方
案，帮助其有效提高资金管理和运营效率。同时，客户需要从知名
制药企业进行采购，随之而来的贸易融资也是面临的一大挑战。我
行因此也为其提供了进口发票融资方案。该融资方案无需占用客户
自身资金，即可从我行获得资金直接偿付供应商。Addressing companies' cross-border liquidity needs through progressive 
solutionsUOB China offers a suite of financing solutions based upon our clients' 
liquidity needs. These solutions include cross-border two-way sweeping, 
centralised cash management and cross-border renminbi (RMB) trade 
ﬁnancing.Our cash management solutions range from cross-border RMB cash pools, 
cross-border foreign currency cash pools to multi-currency cross-border 
cash pools. These solutions enable our multinational clients to offset 
their surplus and deﬁcit balances and to manage cash across a group of 
entities more effectively.For example, in support of a multinational service provider's business 
expansion, in 2021 we developed a cross-border two-way RMB sweeping 
solution, which centralises the company's cross-border cash between 
mainland China and overseas markets. With our solution, the client 
could better manage inter-regional liquidity ﬂows and improve its cash 
management efﬁciency.We also offered customised cash management solutions to a leading 
company  in  the  healthcare  industry.  This  solution  ensures  we  meet 
the client's needs in optimising its cash management and operational 
efficiency. To support the client's trade activities, we provided import 
invoice financing so that it could get direct access to cash to procure 
medicines without deploying its own funds.2627管理层报告
2021 in Review同时，我行继续在本年度发挥一站式服务优势，充分解读监管政策，
协助多个客户在跨境直接投资、跨境资金借贷、跨境资本运作等方
面实现了便利化操作，赋能客户跨境项目的快速推进和成功落地。例如，4 月，大华银行帮助国内知名日化包装领军企业在上海自由
贸易试验区临港新片区成功完成我行首笔中泰跨境人民币资金池业
务。借助该跨境资金池，我行帮助客户享受临港新片区的政策红利，
打通境内与境外渠道，实现跨境资金灵活调拨，简化集团跨境资金
管理流程，同时通过人民币兑泰铢的直接兑换，为客户降低了多重
汇兑的利率成本与税收成本。凭借该解决方案，大华银行中国一举斩获《财资》杂志 2021 年度“AAA 
–  资金、贸易、可持续的供应链及风险管理奖”中的“最佳流动资金
及投资解决方案奖”继去年与某企业客户在临港新片区共同落地外币一体化跨境资金池
之后，我行又协助该客户，成功在临港新片区落地客户第一笔跨境
美元现货业务结算。这一方案不仅切实满足了客户在跨境现货贸易
这种新型国际贸易中的金融需求，也是我行依托临港新片区便利化
政策，打造创新方案的又一里程碑事件。伴随着人民币在国际货币市场地位的提高，越来越多的企业也在跨
境业务中选用人民币作为结算、贸易融资和贷款的主要货币。为了
切实服务实体经济的人民币结算需求，推动贸易融资便利化，我行
于 2020 年加入了跨境人民币贸易融资转让服务平台。本年度，大华
银行中国通过该平台所完成的跨境人民币贸易融资交易量在所有金
融机构中名列前茅。我行也因此在上海票据交易所年度评比中荣获
“优秀跨境贸易融资交易机构”称号。定制化供应链金融方案，共建产业金融生态圈多年来，大华银行中国一直专注耕耘供应链金融领域，并从供应链
信贷审批体系、产品设计、实施流程、跨境服务等方面做了许多努
力和创新尝试，我行的融资项目也屡获多项供应链大奖。我行不仅专注于本地市场的供应链金融，还利用在东盟和大中华区
的广泛业务覆盖积极拓展跨境供应链金融，例如，我行 2021 年成功
为一家大型国有企业落地了中国与菲律宾的跨境供应链融资项目。During the year, we also strengthened our one-stop cash management 
service. We helped our clients capitalise on new financial liberalisation 
policies and supported a number of them to manage their cross-border 
direct investment, debt and capital in a more efﬁcient manner.For example, in April 2021, we launched our first China-Thailand cross-
border RMB cash sweeping solution for a well-known Chinese cosmetic 
packaging enterprise. We tapped the new liberalisation policy in the 
Lingang Special Area of the Shanghai Pilot Free Trade Zone to assist the 
client in optimising its intra-group's liquidity and streamlining the cross-
border cash transfer process. With direct exchange between RMB and Thai 
baht, the client avoided extra costs from multiple currency exchanges.This  solution  won  the  Best  Liquidity  and  Investments  Solution  at 
The Asset Triple A Treasury, Trade, Sustainable Supply Chain and Risk 
Management Awards 2021.We also supported another corporate client in the settlement of its ﬁrst 
cross-border spot business in US dollar in the Lingang Special Area. This 
followed the launch of the client's ﬁrst multi-currency cross-border cash 
pool in the Lingang Special Area in 2020. These are examples of the Bank 
riding on Lingang Special Area's ﬁnancial policies to create and to offer 
progressive solutions that open up opportunities for our clients in cross-
border trade.Recognising the increasing demand in the use of RMB for cross-border 
settlement, trade and ﬁnancing, in 2020 UOB China was one of the ﬁrst 
foreign bank members of the Cross-border RMB Trade Finance Trading 
Platform. In 2021, our transaction volume on the platform was the highest 
among all the members. As such, we were awarded Outstanding Financial 
Institution for Cross-border Trade Financing by the Shanghai Commercial 
Paper Exchange.End-to-end ﬁnancing to support ecosystems of suppliers and distributors 
across industriesUOB China has been deepening our product capabilities in financial 
supply  chain  management  (FSCM)  in  areas  such  as  credit  approval 
processes, product design, implementation and cross-border services. We 
have received recognition for our efforts with multiple industry awards.In 2021, we continued to focus on our clients' domestic supply chain 
financing needs, and also actively expanded our cross-border FSCM 
services  by  leveraging  UOB  Group's  regional  advantages  in  ASEAN 
and Greater China. For example, we successfully completed a FSCM 
programme across China and the Philippines for a large China state-owned 
enterprise.我行继续做大做深对科技、媒体和通信 (TMT) 以及制造业的企业融
资及供应链业务，满足这些行业及品牌产品的上下游资金需求。例如，
在电子产品领域，我行为国内外两大知名电子产品企业分别提供了
供应商和经销商融资服务。同时，我行继续以核心企业为支点的供应链融资项目，为其上游供
应商和下游经销商提供了融资及金融增值服务。为了向上下游的中
小企业供应商提供更便捷的金融服务体验，我行也进一步简化操作
流程、缩短运营周期。凭借强有力的服务能力，我行也为核心企业
提供跨境供应链融资项目。例如，大华银行中国为新加坡著名商业
品牌提供供应商融资服务。截止 2021 年末，我行供应链融资业务资产规模同比增长 79%，营业
收入同比增长 51%。供应链融资业务资产规模同比增长
We achieved 79 per cent increase in 
lending under our FSCM programmes79%相应营业收入同比增长
And a 51 per cent increase in FCSM 
revenue.51%深化合作伙伴生态系统，帮助企业把握跨境商机本年度，我行凭借不断深化的本地业务能力、区域业务联动和合作
伙伴生态系统，帮助客户把握互联互通商机，进而加深我行与客户
之间的合作关系，携手共赢。大华银行通过特有的外国直接投资（FDI）咨询部在亚洲的 10 个 FDI 
中心，  为企业拓展海外业务提供一站式服务，同时， FDI 咨询部还
在印度尼西亚、马来西亚、新加坡、泰国和越南几个中企投资热点
市场设立了中国业务部。自 2011  年，FDI  咨询部就协助了超过 3,500  家企业在亚洲拓展业务 , 
其中，中资企业的占比超过 45%。自 2014 年至今，FDI 咨询部所支持
企业的投资规模预计已超 343 亿新加坡元，创造 15.8 万个工作岗位，
投资大部分流向了东南亚和大中华地区。8 月，大华银行中国与上海最大的工业园区开发商正式签署全面战
略合作协议，依托于其所处区域金融创新发展的政策优势，充分发
挥在东盟的资源及业务优势，帮助更多区内企业把握跨境商机。FDI 咨询部所支持企业的投资规模预计已超
Companies that UOB Group has supported since 2014 
are projected to invest S$34.3 billionS$34.3
158,000同时创造 And generate十亿
billion个工作岗位。 
jobs.As  we  built  up  our  exper tise  in  the  technology,  media  and 
telecommunications (TMT) and industrials sectors, we also developed 
industry-based FSCM solutions for enterprises to meet their financial 
needs  across  the  value  chain.  For  example,  we  provided  supplier 
and  distributor  financing  for  two  global  leading  TMT  companies 
respectively.Through our anchor-led FSCM programmes, we continued to provide 
credit facilities to suppliers or buyers linked to an anchor company that 
are UOB China's clients. This approach enables us to support our clients' 
cross-border trade activities and to offer value-added services to facilitate 
the efﬁcient receipt and processing of invoices. We also further simpliﬁed 
our processes to cut the turnaround time for small and medium-sized 
suppliers and distributors. In 2021, we extended cross-border anchor-led 
FSCM programmes to multinational corporates, including offering supplier 
ﬁnancing to a few esteemed Singapore brands.As at the end of 2021, we achieved 79 per cent increase in lending under 
our FSCM programmes and a 51 per cent increase in revenue.Connecting businesses to regional opportunitiesIn  2021,  we  continued  to  deepen  our  capabilities,  connectivity  and 
partnership ecosystem to support businesses in capturing opportunities 
along the China-ASEAN corridor, forging long-term relationships with 
them in the process.Through  its  10  dedicated  Foreign  Direct  Investment  (FDI)  Advisory 
Centres in Asia, UOB Group has been offering businesses with local 
market insights, market-entry support and holistic banking solutions. Our 
clients can also access the services offered by dedicated China Desks in 
Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam.Since 2011, the UOB Group FDI Advisory Unit has supported more than 
3,500 companies in their cross-border expansion into Asia, of which 45 per 
cent are Chinese enterprises. Companies that UOB Group has supported 
since 2014 are projected to invest S$34.3 billion and generate 158,000 jobs, 
largely across Southeast Asia and Greater China.In  August  2021,  UOB  China  signed  a  strategic  Memorandum  of 
Understanding  (MOU)  with  the  largest  industrial  park  developer  in 
Shanghai.  By  combining  the  strengths  of  this  developer's  business 
ecosystem and UOB Group's expertise in China-ASEAN connectivity, we 
will jointly tap China's ﬁnancial liberalisation to help companies based in 
the industrial parks seize cross-border opportunities.2829管理层报告
2021 in Review为全面助力某国内领先的消费电子企业的国际化战略和海外拓展计
划，9 月，我行与该企业基于十余年的长期合作关系，进一步达成
了海外深度合作意向。双方将在金融服务与咨询，品牌建立与推广，
资源推荐与共享，海外市场的资金统筹与结算等方面展开深度合作，
共谋发展。10 月，我行与某华南医药行业的领先企业签署合作备忘录。在过去
的五年合作期间，我行已联动集团为该企业及其子公司提供了多层
次的全面财务解决方案。通过双方进一步深度合作，我行将协助该
企业提升现金效率，支持该企业更好承担保障医药物品流通的社会
责任，使企业发展成果惠泽大众。11 月，我行分别与两家优质民营企业签署了深化合作及跨境联动的
合作备忘录，一家为与我行合作多年的高科技企业，另一家则是中
国最大的电机和家电制造商之一。利用大华银行集团在大中华区以
及东盟的广泛网络布局及专业的民营企业跨境金融一揽子服务，我
行支持这些客户进一步深耕国内和拓展东盟市场，实现自身业务的
稳步增长。2021 年，我行还协同政府机构、交易所、专业服务商、媒体及合作
伙伴，围绕商品及外汇交易、各行业前景、东盟各国市场动向等主题，
举办了十数场研讨或对接活动，协助企业发掘跨境发展及合作机遇。4 月，我行与马来西亚国际贸易及工业部以及马来西亚投资发展局
共同举办了“大湾区行业领袖圆桌会议”，向来自大湾区内制造、汽车、
电气电子和医疗等行业的优质企业，介绍马来西亚最新的经济发展、
政策和后疫情时期的潜在投资机会。12 月，我行联合印度尼西亚驻广州总领事馆、印度尼西亚银行、
广东省贸促会，举办了“中国（广东）——印度尼西亚国际商机推
介会”共同聚焦在印尼这一东盟最大市场的发展前景、投资新政和
行业机遇。30In September, we signed an MOU with a leading Chinese consumer 
electronic  enterprise  to  deepen  our  support  for  its  business 
internationalisation plan. On the back of our longstanding partnership and 
trust established with the client for more than a decade,  we will continue 
to provide financial advisory and cross-border liquidity management 
solutions, as well as connect the client to our regional partnership 
ecosystem to facilitate its business expansion.In October, we signed an MOU with a leading pharmaceutical company 
based in South China. Over the past ﬁve years, we have been providing 
a  suite  of  comprehensive  financial  solutions  to  the  company  and 
its subsidiaries. Under the MOU, we will step up our support of the 
company's cash efﬁciency needs so that it can develop better and more 
medicines that will improve the health and quality of life for patients.In  November,  we  signed  MOUs  with  two  private-owned  Chinese 
enterprises to enhance our cross-border collaborations. One enterprise 
is a leading high technology solution provider and the other is one of 
China's largest electric motor and home appliance manufacturers. Through 
the MOUs, we will enhance our cross-border support to facilitate their 
further expansion in China and ASEAN.To help businesses explore more cross-border opportunities, we also 
worked closely with government agencies, exchanges, professional service 
providers and business partners to host more than 10 physical and virtual 
events in 2021.In April, in collaboration with Malaysia's Ministry of International Trade 
and Industry and the Malaysian Investment Development Authority, 
we organised a hybrid roundtable to share Malaysia's latest economic 
developments,  policies  and  potential  investment  opportunities. 
Participating enterprises were from high value-added sectors in the 
Greater Bay Area, including the electrical and electronic, medical devices, 
automotive and chemical industries.In December, UOB China, together with Bank Indonesia, the China Council 
for the Promotion of International Trade Guangdong Sub-council and 
Consulate General of Indonesia, Guangzhou, held the Indonesia-Southern 
China Business Forum 2021 to promote investment opportunities in 
Indonesia to Chinese businesses.以“马来西亚—中国通往全球市场的门户”为主题, 圆桌会议向大湾区企业介绍
了马来西亚投资机遇
The roundtable, themed 'Malaysia-China Gateway for Global Markets', promoted 
Malaysia as an investment destination to companies from the Greater Bay Area.2021 年，我行连续第四年亮相中国国际进口博览会，展示我行以跨
境为特色的多元创新金融解决方案，参与包括第四届虹桥经济论坛
在内的一系列商务交流活动。同时，我行也首次搭建了进博会大华银行“云展厅”，让海内外观众
可以通过移动端了解我行的跨境特色金融产品。我行也邀请了几位
行内专家及合作伙伴共同探讨实体经济所需的跨境金融服务，并通
过实体展厅的大屏幕和大华银行中国官方微信视频号进行直播。全新数字化体验，助力企业跨境业务随着技术的不断进步和防疫的需要推动了“无接触式”金融服务，企
业也加速采用数字化渠道管理银行业务和交易。2021 年 8 月，大华
银行中国正式推出新一代企业数字银行 UOB Inﬁnity，以更简单、智
能和个性化的方式，满足企业客户的银行业务需求。UOB Inﬁnity 的推出彰显了我行不断提升数字化能力，为客户提供创
新解决方案的承诺。通过这一数字化方案，我行可以实时为客户提
供账户数据信息，助其及时地做出业务决策，高效管理其境内及跨
境交易，从而提升其运营效率和流动性管理，把握更多亚洲商机。截至 2021 年 12 月底，超过 73% 的企业选择使用 UOB Inﬁnity 替换原
企业网银 BIBPlus。预计 2022 年 1 月底前，所有企业客户将使用 UOB 
Inﬁnity，享受更便捷、高效的服务。In 2021, we participated in the China International Import Expo (CIIE) for the 
fourth consecutive year. During the six-day expo, we not only showcased UOB 
Group's regional connectivity, partnership ecosystems as well as progressive 
solutions, we also participated in various high-profile forums and business 
events including the Hongqiao International Economic Forum.For those who could not attend the CIIE in person, we created a virtual booth, 
for the ﬁrst time, so that people can learn more about UOB Group's offering 
using their mobile devices. We also partnered industry experts and ecosystem 
partners to hold two webinars to offer more information on our progressive 
solutions. These webinars were broadcasted live at our booth at the CIIE and 
through UOB China's ofﬁcial WeChat account.Deepening digital capabilities for greater connectivityIn China, businesses have been increasing their use of digital banking 
services, especially during the pandemic, for better efﬁciency and ﬁnancial 
data analysis. In August 2021, we launched UOB Infinity, a new digital 
banking experience that enables our corporate clients to manage their 
banking needs in a simpler, smarter and more personalised manner.UOB Infinity is testament to our commitment to deepening our digital 
capabilities. This solution offers real-time and customised information 
which enables our clients to make timely, data-driven decisions and to 
manage their domestic and cross-border transactions more effectively. 
With enhanced productivity and liquidity, our clients are able to seize 
more regional opportunities across Asia.As at the end of December 2021, more than 73 per cent of our corporate 
clients have migrated from our Business Internet Banking Plus service to 
UOB Inﬁnity. We expect all our corporate clients will use UOB Inﬁnity by 
the end of January 2022.大华银行新一代企业数字银行 UOB Inﬁnity
 UOB Inﬁnity, a new digital banking experience
for businesses31管理层报告
2021 in Review提供创新交易方案，满足企业多元化金融需求Meeting companies' ﬁnancial needs through progressive trading solutions2021 年，在新冠疫情阴影依旧笼罩全球的背景下，面临市场多重不
确定性，我行密切关注宏观政策的调整，深入了解客户需求，不断
创新金融产品与服务。外汇交易方面，我行继续深耕外汇市场业务，交易能力不断提升。
此外，我行不断完善东南亚货币交易与服务，满足客户对于东南亚
币种离岸交易的多样需求。2021 年 1 月，我行获批成为银行间外汇市场即期、远掉和期权尝试
做市商。通过参与银行间外汇市场多层次的交易模块，优化交易成本、
降低交易价格、更灵活地管控外汇风险，进而为客户提供更优化的
外汇报价，助其降低财务成本，同时也为国内外汇市场提供更多的
流动性。我行还为一家精密电机整流子制造业的龙头企业完成了一笔欧元人
民币交叉货币互换交易。该交易为客户成功规避了海外资产的潜在
汇率风险，并显著节省了财务成本。这也是大华银行中国为企业客
户完成的首笔欧元人民币交叉货币互换业务，也令我行成为市场上
少有的能提供该类交易的银行，凸显了我行在外汇产品能力方面的
差异化优势。2021 年 9 月，我行获批成为首批人民币对印尼卢比特许交叉货币做
市商（ACCD）, 在本币结算框架（LCS）下，为中国及印尼的双边经
贸及投资提供人民币对印尼卢比即期、远期外汇风险对冲及外汇掉
期和货币互换服务。获批首日，我行即完成中国市场首笔人民币 /
印尼卢比交易以及中国市场首笔人民币 / 印尼卢比远期交易，占首
日整体交易量 50% 以上。人民币 / 印尼卢比的直接交易业务是我行夯实“东南亚货币一站式服
务”的又一重要举措。依托我行的这项特色服务，我们将有效帮助实
体经济和企业降低融资成本和汇兑成本，并缩减外汇风险对冲的流
程和时间 , 从而带动人民币与东盟国家货币的良性互动，有力促进区
域货币融通，为区域经济协同发展作出贡献。In  2021,  the  long-drawn  COVID-19  pandemic  continued  to  drag  on 
the global economy, creating uncertainties for businesses. Under this 
backdrop, UOB China paid close attention to macro policies adjustments, 
deepened  our  understanding  of  our  business  customer  needs  and 
continued to develop progressive solutions to support their growth.We continued to enhance our RMB / foreign exchange (FX) business and 
improved our trading capability. In addition, we continued to improve 
our ASEAN Currency One-stop Service to meet the diverse needs of our 
customers for offshore transactions in Southeast Asian currencies.In  January,  we  were  approved  to  be  a  trial  market  maker  in  China's 
interbank  FX  market  for  spots,  forwards,  swaps  and  options.  By 
participating in the multi-level trading activities of the interbank FX 
market, we can optimise transaction costs and stay nimble in managing 
FX risks. Our clients can also enjoy competitive FX rates for greater cost 
efﬁciency. At the same time, we also help provide more liquidity to the 
domestic FX market.We also completed a cross currency swap (CCS) transaction between 
Euro  and  RMB  (EUR/CNY)  for  a  leading  manufacturer  of  electrical 
commutators. This solution helped the company hedge the potential FX 
risk of its overseas assets, which greatly reduce its ﬁnancing cost. This was 
our first EUR/CNY CCS client deal, making us one of the few banks in 
the market to offer such a trading solution, which sets us apart from our 
peers.In September 2021, UOB China became one of the ﬁrst authorised cross-
currency dealers (ACCDs) and direct market makers between Chinese Yuan 
and Indonesian Rupiah (CNY/IDR) under the Local Currency Settlement 
framework between People's Bank of China and the Bank Indonesia. With 
this license, we could offer CNY/IDR spot, forward and swap solutions to 
support our clients' cross-border trade and investment activities. On the 
ﬁrst day, we completed the ﬁrst CNY/IDR spot transaction and the ﬁrst 
CNY/IDR forward transaction in the China market, accounting for over 50 
per cent of the overall transaction volume on the ﬁrst day.Our CNY/IDR solution is an important addition to our ASEAN Currency 
One-stop service. Our service helps to reduce ﬁnancing and FX costs and 
streamline the process of FX risk-hedging transactions for businesses. It 
also enabled us to help drive cross-border flow of RMB and Southeast 
Asian currencies and support regional economic integration.多年来，大华银行中国一直致力于发展贵金属业务与商品业务，并
持续开展业务创新。Over  the  years,  UOB  China  has  been  committed  to  developing  our 
precious metals and commodities business to support our clients' needs 
to hedge against market volatility.2021 年 4 月，我行所参与的上海黄金所（上金所）“黄金之路”项目
下首笔海外黄金原料加工复出口业务成功落地。我行协助某大型矿
业企业将海外黄金原料在境内保税区加工复出口，并直接在上金所
国际板交易。这一业务模式，打通了海外矿山、精炼厂与上金所国
际板交易通路，有效拓宽了海外中资矿山销售渠道，实现境内精炼
企业产能输出。2021 年大宗商品价格波动剧烈，不管是矿山企业、贸易商，还是作
为终端用户的制造业企业，都面临较大的市场风险管理的挑战。针对企业客户的真实需求，我们一方面积极提供常见的工业金属掉
期服务，一方面积极开拓新产品，包括准备于 2022 年推出商品期权
服务，给企业更多套期保值策略的选择。同时我们也扩大可交易商
品的品类，如马来西亚棕榈油、新加坡燃料油等产品，帮助实体经
济在动荡的市场中管理好价格风险，实现预期利润。此外，了解到大部分国内企业有进行上海期货交易所挂钩产品套期
保值的需求，我行积极配合上期所，参与产品设计的讨论、协助安
排企业调研、并协助举办客户研讨会等，助力上期所推出场外衍生
业务。随着 RCEP 的逐步实施，中国与东南亚的国际贸易大幅增加，大华银
行中国计划利用东南亚货币与人民币的跨境解决方案支持大宗商品
国际交易，为中资企业到东南亚投资矿山、开发农业资源，提供外
汇兑换、汇率波动套保以及融资等解决方案。In April, we took part in Shanghai Gold Exchange (SGE)'s Golden Road 
Project. We assisted a large mining company to process overseas gold 
raw materials in the domestic free trade zone and re-export the reﬁned 
gold directly on the International Board of the SGE. This business model 
connects miners, reﬁneries and traders across the border. It broadens the 
sales channels of overseas mines of Chinese companies and help domestic 
reﬁners export their products overseas.Commodity prices were highly volatile in 2021, and mining, trading and 
manufacturing companies faced greater challenge in managing market risk.To cater to our clients' needs, we proactively provided commodity swap 
services for clients to optimise their hedging strategies. In addition to 
providing common industrial metal swap services, we also explored ways 
to broaden our product offerings and commodity varieties. We plan to 
launch more commodity swap services such as Malaysian palm oil and 
Singapore fuel gas in 2022. This will help businesses better manage market 
risk and lock in gains during a volatile environment.We also observed that many local clients have a need to hedge products 
linked to the Shanghai Future Exchange, we proactively supported the 
exchange to launch and promote over-the-counter derivatives. Our effort 
included participating in product development discussion, arranging ﬁeld 
research and hosting business seminars.Cross-border trade between China and ASEAN is set to expand with 
the newly enforced RCEP trade agreement. We plan to use our ASEAN 
Currency One-stop service to support clients' cross-border commodity 
transactions. This integrated approach could offer businesses foreign 
currency  exchange,  hedging  against  exchange  rate  fluctuations  and 
ﬁnancing solutions as they invest in the mining and agricultural sectors in 
Southeast Asia.3233管理层报告
2021 in Review共筑可持续未来
Forging a Sustainable Future for All作为深化可持续发展的重要举措，我们制订了可持续发展战略，并
着力从商业可持续、服务可持续、人才可持续和社会责任可持续四
个支柱领域推进可持续发展战略，与客户、员工和社区“共筑可持续
未来”。In 2021, we reinforced our commitment to forging a sustainable future 
with  our  customers,  colleagues  and  communities,  sharpening  our  
sustainability strategy based on four pillars of1.  Drive Growth Sustainably 
2.  Keep Customers at the Centre
3.  Develop Professionals of Principle 
4. Uphold Corporate Responsibility我行可持续发展的四大战略支柱
The Four Pillars of Our Sustainability Strategy我行的可持续发展战略也建立在大华银行集团可持续发展定位和战
略的基础上。集团可持续战略把企业发展目标与 2030 年可持续发展
议程中的 17 项可持续发展目标挂钩，自上而下为可持续发展指明方
向。基于这一战略，并结合自身业务特点和中国“十四五”规划等国
家发展战略，我行积极制定了可持续发展目标和行动计划。The four pillars are consistent with UOB Group's overall sustainability 
strategy,  which  is  aligned  to  the  17  United  Nations  Sustainable 
Development Goals. The pillars provide the Bank with clear direction and 
purpose, as well as guide the Bank's initiatives in line with our business 
focus, China's 14th Five-Year Plan and the country's economic and social 
development strategies.和各方携手推动联合国可持续发展目标的实现(cid:1924)(cid:1778)(cid:1626)(cid:3962)(cid:3437)(cid:3703)(cid:1518)(cid:2547)(cid:1926)(cid:1875)(cid:2390)(cid:1275)(cid:4035)(cid:1599)(cid:4442)(cid:2850)(cid:1107)(cid:1445)(cid:3404)(cid:3907)Promote United Nations Sustainable Development Goals With Our Stakeholders商业可持续
Drive Growth
Sustainably服务可持续Keep Customersat the Centre人才可持续Develop Professionalsof Principle社会责任可持续
Uphold CorporateResponsibility为社区经济发展贡献力量
Contribute economically to the progress of our 
communities将环境保护、社会责任和公司治理（ESG）相关风
险的管理纳入自身风险管理体系
Embed environmental, social and governance risk in our 
approach to risk management将社会和环境因素纳入我行贷款评估和批准的流程
Integrate social and environmental considerations into 
our credit evaluation and approval processes采纳并推广应对气候变化的实践和绿色方案，积极
支持客户拥抱低碳经济
Adopt and promote climate-resilient practices to 
support our customers in their transition to a 
lower-carbon economy开发并提供可持续投融资的解决方案
Develop and provide sustainable financing and 
sustainable investment solutions通过安全和稳健的系统及操作，保护客户数据和
隐私安全
Protect customer data and privacy through secure and 
robust systems and practices保护消费者权益、确保公平交易
Ensure Fair Dealing打造更富人性化和感染力的客户体验
Create intuitive and impactful customer experiences遵循专业伦理准则运用金融科技和数据，进而提供
更智能、便捷和安全的银行服务
Make banking simpler, smarter and safer through ethical 
use of technology and data提供无障碍且“有温度”的银行服务
Make banking more accessible and inclusive为不同发展阶段和规模的企业提供支持
Support businesses across all stages of growth着力打造高绩效团队和面向未来的银行人才
Develop high-performing teams and future-focused 
individuals倡导工作与生活的平衡
Promote work-life harmony鼓励员工投身各类志愿工作并为社会和环境发展贡
献正能量
Encourage volunteerism and advocacy for social and 
environmental causes积极提升员工参与度和满意度
Ensure employee engagement and satisfaction打造健康、安全及关爱员工的工作环境
Ensure workplace health, safety and well-being鼓励多元的文化、技能和能力
Embrace diverse abilities and strengths遵循公司治理和风险文化的最高标准
Maintain highest standards of governance and risk 
culture确保监管合规
Ensure regulatory compliance防范金融系统被恶意滥用
Protect the financial system against abuse将可持续发展原则贯彻到我行的采购行为中
Incorporate sustainability principles into our 
procurement practices管理自身对环境的影响，鼓励关爱保护环境
Manage direct environmental impact and encourage 
environmental stewardship积极推动艺术、儿童和教育领域的发展
Champion social development in art, children and 
education以我行诚信、进取、齐心和担当的价值观为基石(cid:1924)(cid:1778)(cid:1626)(cid:3962)(cid:3437)(cid:3703)(cid:1518)(cid:2547)(cid:1926)(cid:1875)(cid:2390)(cid:1275)(cid:4035)(cid:1599)(cid:4442)(cid:2850)(cid:1107)(cid:1445)(cid:3404)(cid:3907)Rooted in Our Values of Honour, Enterprise, Unity and Commitment3435管理层报告
2021 in Review商业可持续
Drive Growth Responsibly服务可持续
Keep Customers at the Centre提供绿色金融方案，帮助企业实现可持续发展Helping businesses advance responsibly运用科技力量提升客户体验Enhancing customer experience by harnessing the power of technology在推动商业可持续方面，大华银行中国利用自身专长，帮助企业实
现资源高效利用和绿色低碳发展方面的转型。我行结合近期中国制
定的《2030 年前碳达峰行动方案》，重点为可再生能源、节能设施
和项目、工业减碳增效、循环经济等领域提供金融支持。2021 年，我行已为新能源汽车、绿色地产、太阳能玻璃，塑料回收
和低碳项目提供了多项绿色贷款融资，我行绿色信贷客户数量和额
度也实现了双位数增长。在大华银行中国的支持和协调下，大华银行于 2021 年 4 月担任联席
全球协调人、联席牵头经办人和联席簿记管理人，成功为一家国有
四大行新加坡分行首次发行 5 亿美元高级无抵押 3 年期固定利率绿
色债券；2021 年 10 月，大华银行再次以联席牵头经办人和簿记管理
人身份，帮助该行伦敦分行发行 3  亿美元的 3  年期高级无抵押可持
续发展再关联票据。这一成果不仅证明了我们与该银行携手对绿色可持续发展的承诺，也
展示了大华银行集团在支持中国金融机构债券发行方面的领先实力。着力倡导可持续投资We provide sustainable ﬁnancial solutions to support our clients in the 
adoption of green business practices in their transition to a low-carbon 
economy. In this regard, we extended financing to companies in key 
sectors and areas identiﬁed in China's Action Plan for Caron Dioxide Peak 
before 2030, such as renewable energy, energy-saving projects, industrial 
upgrades as well as the circular economy.In 2021, we provided green financing to facilitate our clients' projects 
in electrical vehicles, real estate, solar panels and plastic recycling. We 
recorded double-digit year-on-year growth in both the number of clients 
taking up green loans and the value of loans provided.With UOB China's support and coordination, in April 2021, UOB acted as 
the joint global coordinator, joint lead manager and joint bookrunner for 
the inaugural US$500 million three-year senior unsecured ﬁxed rate green 
bond issuance by the Singapore branch of a top China state-owned bank. 
In October, UOB also assisted the bank's London branch in the issuance of 
US$300million three-year senior unsecured sustainability re-linked notes 
as the joint lead manager and bookrunner.在全球可持续发展持续关注的背景下，我们将“环境保护、社会责任、
公司治理（ESG）”的概念引入理财产品甄选和客户资产配置。These transactions are testament to our commitment to supporting our 
clients' sustainable development, particularly UOB Group's debt market 
capabilities to meet the funding needs of Chinese ﬁnancial institutions.继 2020 年在客户产品配置组合中推出安联全球永续发展基金，我行又
于 2021 年 9 月推出法巴能源转型基金，进一步丰富 ESG 在架产品系列。Steering wealth towards sustainable investments此外，我们积极倡导可持续性发展的投资理念，通过企业微信、视
频宣传等多种形式，促进可持续理念的投资者教育。With the spotlight on sustainability continuing to grow, we are offering 
investment products with an environmental, social and governance (ESG) 
focus to help our customers make a positive difference.For example, we added the BNP Paribas Energy Transition Fund to our 
ESG product offering in September 2021, following the launch of Allianz 
Global Sustainability Fund in our portfolio in 2020.We also actively promoted awareness on responsible investing among our 
customers by sharing insights into sustainable investment concepts and 
ideas through our retail banking WeChat and video accounts.2021 年，我行继续加大对技术、数据能力和系统整合迭代的投入，
以确保为客户提供安全、可靠并迎合其需要的服务。In 2021, UOB China continued to invest in technology, data capabilities 
and systems integration to ensure that our customers receive services that 
are safe, reliable and relevant.例如，我们推出了新一代企业网银 UOB Inﬁnity。该系统提供一体化
和直观的用户体验，使客户在网银中更容易操作。企业网银平台为
每个客户提供了更多的灵活性，例如系统组件和自定义视图。优化
后的审批流程更有助于客户提高工作效率。9 月，我行获得人民币 / 印尼卢比的特许交叉货币做市商银行的资质。
为确保给客户提供安全高效的人民币 / 印尼卢比直接交易服务，年
内我行完成了对应系统的优化。2021  年我们还建立了新的灾难恢复系统架构，并针对所有的关键系
统进行了真实接管业务灾备演练，提高了我们在危机状态下的运营
弹性和客户服务能力。增强金融教育，保护消费者权益“不忘初心，牢记使命”，大华银行中国消费者权益保护工作始终砥
砺前行，并坚持“以人民为中心”的服务理念，全心全意为广大金融
消费者保驾护航。For example, we rolled out UOB Infinity, a banking platform for our 
corporate customers. UOB Infinity offers an integrated and intuitive 
user experience, which make it easier for our customers to navigate. The 
banking platform offers more ﬂexibility such as widgets and a customised 
view for each customer. The streamlined approval process also helps our 
customers improve productivity.In September, UOB China secured a license to be an Appointed Cross-
Currency Dealer (ACCD) for Chinese Yuan/Indonesia Rupiah (CNY/IDR). 
To ensure safe and efficient CNY/IDR direct trading transactions, we 
carried out system enhancements during the year.We also built a new disaster recovery infrastructure and conducted role-
swap simulation for all our critical systems in 2021. This improves our 
operating resilience and customer service capabilities in times of crisis.Ensuring Fair Dealing and promoting ﬁnancial literacy2021 年度，我行持续深化各项消费者权益保护工作，夯实消保全流
程管控机制，积极开展了多项有质效的金融知识宣传教育活动，以
期全面提升金融消费者素养和安全防范意识，为稳定金融秩序添砖
加瓦。At UOB China, our customers  are at the centre of what we  do.  We 
develop and grow our business based on this foundation. We are focused 
on doing what is right for our customers; we act in their best interests and 
take their feedback seriously.全年，我行通过不同渠道，开展了公众宣传教育 128 场、发布“消保
微课堂”26 篇、投入人力 476 人次。In  2021,  we  continued  to  deepen  our  consumer  rights  protection 
efforts. We set out a multitude of comprehensive policies, guidelines 
and processes to ensure end-to-end management of consumer rights 
protection. In addition, we organised events on financial literacy to 
promote awareness on issues such as scams and account security. These 
activities enhanced financial literacy and safety awareness among the 
public and helped safeguard ﬁnancial stability.Throughout the year, UOB China organised 128 public education events on 
consumer rights protection involving 476 colleagues. We also published 
26 consumer rights-related articles on our social media channels.“大华投资说”栏目主播解读ESG投资理念
Our portfolio manager explaining ESG investment concepts through WeChat video大华银行中国官方微信账号宣传防止金融诈骗知识
Anti-scam related content on UOB China's corporate WeChat account3637管理层报告
2021 in Review我行客户体验及权益部员工在社区为老年消费者普及消保知识
 A community outreach session on consumer rights conducted by our Customer Experience and Advocacy colleagues for the elderly我们注重针对不同的弱势人群，打造适宜其特色的宣教活动。We focused on targeting different vulnerable groups and tailored our 
digital literacy and anti-scam content to their speciﬁc needs.针对青少年，我行将青少年崇尚的 Rap 音乐和金融知识教育相结合，
原创打造了金融消费权益指南“华”语 Rap《准则》，内容涵盖“小心
非法金融广告”、“提防网络金融诈骗”、“保护个人金融信息”和“金
融消费者八大权益”，并通过大华银行中国官方微信号、大华银行尊
享财富官方微信号、大华银行中国官方视频号，以及网络新媒体等
渠道进行推送。“华”语 Rap《准则》的点击播放量达到 397.3 万人次。
这一创意内容也广受监管机构在内的多方认可，其中两段视频荣获
了中国人民银行天津分行“普及金融知识 共创美好生活”优秀短视频
评选的一等奖和三等奖，和上海银行业 2021 年度原创金融知识宣教
短视频活动通用宣教篇三等奖。针对老年群体，我行不仅原创制作了宣传标语和宣传海报，倡导关爱、
丰富老年人的精神生活，从而达到理性参与金融活动的目的。同时
还多次前往社区，为老年群体开展集中宣传教育活动，以此帮助老
年群体充分了解参与非法集资的危害、掌握电信网络诈骗的防范技
巧，为构建平安社区贡献力量。2021 年度，我行共受理客户投诉 51 起，其中 48 起为个人银行业务，
分别涉及上海、北京和杭州地区，3 起为批发银行业务，分别涉及上
海和重庆地区，总体客户投诉量较 2020 年下降了 25%。主要的消费
者投诉涉及业务领域为个人住房贷款、功能类业务、理财产品，以
及其他银行业务。全年平均投诉处理时效为 5.5 个自然日，投诉处理
率为 100%。我行对于金融消费者投诉的处理及调解工作中，坚决履
行投诉处理的主体责任，积极倡导非诉第三方解决机制，确保“公平、
透明、全面、高效”地解决客户投诉。For the younger consumers, we incorporated scam-related content in an 
original hip hop song and developed a series of short videos based on the 
song. The video series covered four topics: illegal ﬁnancial advertisement, 
internet ﬁnance scams, personal ﬁnancial information protection and a list 
of eight ﬁnancial consumer rights. We garnered nearly four million views 
across UOB China's corporate WeChat account and other social media 
channels. The regulators, including the People's Bank of China (PBC) lauded 
our efforts in engaging the younger generation in a creative manner. Two 
of our videos won the ﬁrst and third prize in a ﬁnancial literacy contest 
organised by the Tianjin Branch of PBC. We also clinched third prize in a 
ﬁnancial literacy contest organised by the Shanghai Banking Association.For the elderly, we developed caring and loving posters so they can be 
encouraged to make rational ﬁnancial decisions. We distributed the posters 
through different channels and we also visited local communities to help 
promote ﬁnancial literacy for the elderly. Through these educational outreach 
efforts, we shared useful tips on ﬁnancial scams, digital payment security and 
the dangers of participating in illegal fund raising.In 2021, we received 51 customer complaints, including 48 retail banking 
complaints involving the Shanghai, Beijing and Hangzhou branches and 
three wholesale banking complaints involving the Shanghai and Chongqing 
branches. The overall number of customer complaints fell by 25 per 
cent from a year ago. Most of the customer complaints involved home 
loans, service delivery, and wealth management products. We ensured 
that all customer complaints were fully addressed within the established 
processes and timelines. We took an average of 5.5 calendar days to 
resolve each complaint during the year. We are committed to providing 
our customers with an independent, accountable and objective resolution 
process  in  order  to  address  their  complaints  in  a  fair,  transparent, 
comprehensive and efﬁcient manner.人才可持续
Develop Professionals of Principle着力打造高绩效团队和面向未来的银行人才Building a high-performing team and nurturing future-ready banking talents我们坚信有活力且敬业的工作团队对组织取得成功至关重要，因此
我们不断帮助员工提升知识和专业水平，确保他们思维和技能都能
与时俱进，走在行业前端，努力实现自我。为打造高绩效团队和提升员工的信贷风险理念，我行在集团机构银
行服务部的大力支持下，连续第三年在上海和深圳举办了信贷系列
培训课程。该课程是由知名评级公司定制，面向全行批发银行部的
客户经理团队及信贷分析相关团队的系统性培训，旨在增强他们对
信贷产品及风险管理的知识与技能。2021 年，我行共举办了 9 场，为期共 21 天的培训，覆盖 170 多名来
自前台及中台的的销售及信贷风险管理人员。当前，变革的速度正在加快。对合适人才的竞争也愈演愈烈。“人才”
的定义已不再是我们过去所认知的那样，未来的许多岗位、技能和
职称我们今天都是未知的。在 2020 年我们在中国引进了集团全面技能进阶计划 Better U，确保
我们的员工具备相关技能，能够自信地迎接新挑战，并在瞬息万变
的商业环境中茁壮成长。2021 年，在此基础上，我们又推出 Better U
第二期课程，帮助员工进一步充实项目管理和数据分析这两项必需
技能，以走在行业前沿。We  believe  that  a  dynamic  and  dedicated  workforce  is  vital  to  the 
success of our organisation. We continually help our people improve 
their knowledge and expertise, ensuring that they are equipped with the 
skillsets and mindsets to stay relevant, competitive and fulﬁlled.In order to build a high-performing and risk-focused team, we organised 
a series of credit training courses in Shanghai and Shenzhen for the 
third consecutive year with the support of Group Wholesale Banking. 
Conducted  by  a  well-known  ratings  company,  the  course,  offered 
systematic training for our relationship managers and credit analysts in 
Wholesale Banking. It aims to enhance their knowledge and skills on 
credit products and risk management.In 2021, we held nine training sessions for more than 170 frontline and 
middle-ofﬁce colleagues, over a total of 21 days.Meanwhile, the pace of change in the banking industry is accelerating. 
Many roles, skills and positions are being redefined and the definition 
of "talent" is no longer what we used to know. Competition for the right 
people is also intensifying.In 2020, we introduced Better U, a holistic learning and development 
programme rolled out at the Group-level in China, to equip colleagues 
with the skills to conﬁdently take on new challenges and to thrive in an 
ever-changing business environment. And in 2021 we launched Better U 
Phase II to include training in project management and data analytics, two 
areas essential to future employability.总行同事参与信贷系列培训课程
Credit training for colleagues at our head ofﬁce in Shanghai学员正在聆听Better 第二期项目管理课程
Colleagues attending the Better U Phase II Project Management course3839管理层报告
2021 in Review第二期 Better U 课程开放给所有已完成第一期五大基础课程（成长
型思维、解决问题、数字化意识、以人为本的流程设计和用数据叙事）
的员工。第二期数据分析和项目管理课程，在实际教学中，根据进
阶程度，分为三个等级，员工可依据自身知识和技能水平循序完成。截至 2021 年底，分别有 41 名员工完成了项目管理的初级课程，100
名员工完成了数据分析的初级课程。在为现有员工提供一系列强化和提升职业技能的培训的基础上，我
行也新增加了金融科技管理培训生项目，培养新一代跨学科金融人
才。随着粤港澳大湾区跨境业务的蓬勃发展，跨境金融人才需求也
不断增加。我行也积极响应“粤港澳大湾区青年就业计划”，聘请七
位中国香港青年，入职我行大湾区商业银行部，在广州及深圳分行
工作与学习，为湾区金融人才发展开辟一条新跑道。鼓励多元的文化、技能和能力多元的员工队伍能够为我们开拓不同的视野，培养创新性思维，帮
助我们破解商业挑战，实现可持续增长。因此我们致力于创造开放
包容、平等多元的工作环境，促进不同年龄及文化背景、特质和技
能的员工和谐共进。Better U Phase II is open to all colleagues who have completed the 
mandatory foundational modules, which cover ﬁve core areas – growth 
mindset, problem-solving, digital awareness, human-centred design and 
data storytelling. The data analytics and project management tracks 
feature three progressive stages. Our colleagues can choose to take part in 
the different stages according to their level of experience and knowledge.By end of 2021, 41 employees have completed the ﬁrst stage of the project 
management course and 100 employees have completed the ﬁrst stage of 
the data analytics course.In addition to providing a series of training for our colleagues to strengthen and 
enhance their career skills, we also added a new ﬁnancial technology Management 
Associate programme to groom cross-disciplinary talents. With the Guangdong-
Hong Kong-Macau Greater Bay Area (GBA) seeing a growing demand for cross-
border banking services, the demand for cross-border ﬁnancial talents is also on 
the rise. We also launched a GBA Trainee programme with seven young talents 
from the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region joining the GBA Commercial 
Banking team in Guangzhou and Shenzhen. This is part of our support to the GBA 
Youth Employment Scheme to offer young talents cross-border work experience 
and exposure.为了帮助同事们发掘和接纳多元的职业特性、技能和发展经历，我
行于 9 月 26 日至 29 日举办了首届大华银行中国职业发展周。Encouraging diverse cultures, skills and abilitiesA diverse workforce provides different perspectives fosters innovative 
thinking  and  helps  us  overcome  business  challenges  and  achieve 
sustainable growth. We are committed to creating an inclusive workplace 
that values different backgrounds, skills and abilities.To help our colleagues explore and embrace diverse career attributes, 
experiences and capabilities, we organised the ﬁrst Career Week from 26 
to 29 September.大华银行中国管理层共同开启2021年职业发展周
UOB China leadership team officiating the opening 
ceremony of Career Week 2021环球金融部同事们在职业发展周创意集市展示部门业务特色及风采
Global Markets colleagues at the career fair to showcase their products, services 
and capabilities超过 500 位同事参加了在总部大华银行大厦举办的职业发展周开幕
仪式。在为期四天的职业发展周中，同事们通过一系列线上课程、
线下讲座和活动，了解了我行的各项发展规划，以及为培养多元协
作的职场文化所做出的不懈努力。女性，是推动我行可持续发展的重要力量之一。截至 2021 年底，我
行女性员工占全体员工总数的 72%，直接汇报给行长的女性高层管
理人员占比为 42%.员工职业发展周 “跨世代咖啡时光”邀请我行6位员工，分别代表70后、80
后和90后员工分享他们如何看待多元化、平等、包容等议题
The "Intergenerational Coffee Hour" showcased six of our employees, representing 
the Gen X, Y, and Z, to share their views on issues such as diversity, equality and 
inclusiveness.More than 500 colleagues attended the opening ceremony of the Career 
Week at UOB Plaza. During the four-day event, our colleagues attended 
online courses, talks and activities, to learn more about the Bank's career 
development plans and our continuing efforts to foster a diverse and 
collaborative work culture.At UOB China, female colleagues are important drivers of our sustainable 
growth. Women accounted for 72 per cent of our permanent employees 
as at end-2021. They accounted for 42 per cent of our senior management 
reporting directly to the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer.72%42%.截至 2021 年底，我行女性员工占全体员工总数的 72%。
Women accounted for 72 per cent of our permanent 
employees as at end-2021.直接汇报给行长的女性高层管理人员占比为 42%。
Women accounted for 42 per cent of our senior management 
reporting directly to the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer.考虑到女性的特质和多重角色，我们不仅有家庭关爱政策和福利，
还有多项针对女员工的孕期、产期和哺乳期的弹性工作安排和福利
机制。同时一系列贴合职场女性需求的培训、休闲活动以及职场发
展通道，让女员工在职场中更好地体现自我价值。因此，我行在智
联招聘的“2021 中国年度最佳雇主”评选中，连续第三年蝉联“年度最
佳最受女性关注雇主奖”。To  support  female  colleagues  in  balancing  their  personal  life  and 
professional responsibilities, we continued to provide dedicated insurance 
plans and family care programmes, nursing and maternity benefits as 
well as flexible working arrangements. We also have a range of training 
and Staff Club activities and career development paths tailored to the 
needs of our female colleagues to keep them engaged. We were awarded 
China's Best Employer for Female Employees by Zhaopin.com for the third 
consecutive year.4041管理层报告
2021 in Review社会责任可持续
Uphold Corporate Responsibility与社区共生共荣Heartbeat for the community造福社会、回馈社区是我行一贯坚持的宗旨。我们通过大华银行的 UOB Heartbeat 系列公益项目，积极履行企业社
会责任。UOB Heartbeat 系列项目，依托公益合作、企业捐助及员工
参与三大渠道，回馈大众，推动社会可持续发展。秉承诚信、进取、
齐心、担当的企业价值观，我们凝聚员工、客户及合作伙伴的力量，
共同为社区带来积极的转变。我行专注于推动艺术、儿童及教育领域的发展，因为我们坚信这三
大领域对于社会的高质量发展至关重要。艺术连接社区探索艺术与可持续艺术是人们对于社会价值观的文化反馈和审美体现，而可持续发展
也成为当代艺术的一个不可或缺的宣言。为了激发更多对于艺术与
可持续性之间的思考，大华银行艺术画廊 2021 年特别呈现了两场艺
术展。7 月 30 日 — 10 月底，大华银行艺术画廊展出了“未来即现在 — 传统
与可持续间的平衡”艺术展。我们携手三位“大华银行年度绘画大赛”
获奖艺术家刘轩齐、胡婧璇和张春雷，为观众呈现了 11 幅艺术作品。
通过回应如何实现物质社会与自然环境的共生；地域文化与多样性
生态的融合；传统技法与新材料、新技术的碰撞等课题，艺术家从
审美、内心、风景等不同角度展现了各自对于“可持续”这一概念的思考。Enriching lives and strengthening social bonds are fundamental to our 
philosophy to give back to the community.At UOB, our corporate social responsibility (CSR) efforts from across 
the Group come together under the UOB Heartbeat CSR programme. 
The programme aims to create sustainable good for a more caring and 
inclusive society through corporate philanthropy, stakeholder partnerships 
and employee participation. Guided by our values of Honour, Enterprise, 
Unity and Commitment, we draw together our colleagues, customers and 
ecosystem partners to make a positive difference to our communities.We focus on three areas which we believe are essential for the quality and 
progress of society: art, children and education.Bringing art closer to allExploring sustainability through artArt, as a reﬂection of our society, plays an important role in inspiring and 
shaping thoughts and actions on sustainability. To open up the field to 
more understanding of sustainability, we launched two art exhibitions at 
UOB Art Gallery to help public explore art and sustainability in 2021.From 31 July to 31 October 2021, we hosted the 'The Future is Now: Balance 
between Tradition and Sustainability' art exhibition. The exhibition featured 
three UOB Painting of the Year award-winning artists, Mr Leo Liu, Ms Hu 
Jingxuan and Mr Zhang Chunlei. The artists presented 11 artworks to address 
the relationship between business, society and the environment, as well as to 
highlight the importance of cultural diversity and bio-diversity through the 
contrast between traditional and new mediums and techniques.艺术家邱岸雄的《新山海经》系列作品，拓展了水墨的当代语言表现力，描
绘了现代文明给人类带来的危机和影响
Mr Qiu Anxiong's series of New Classic of Mountains and Seas artworks used ink art 
techniques and strokes to paint oil on canvas. His art pieces depict the impact of 
human activities on the natural environment.我们与第三届艺术与设计创新未来教育博览会（FutureLab，以下简
称教博会）联合呈现的“闻墨而启”水墨艺术展于 2021 年 11 月 27 日在
大华银行艺术画廊启幕。本次展览共展出来自王冬龄、何赛邦、韩
峰、邱岸雄四位知名艺术家的多幅作品。画展关注水墨作品从不同
题材和维度，展示了水墨未来的无限可能性。我行与教博会也计划
于 2022 年启动“大华银行校园水墨艺术大奖”，以培养年轻水墨艺术
人才，推动水墨艺术跨区域交流，促进水墨艺术创新和传承。本年度，大华银行也连续第三年作为首席合作伙伴支持教博会，还
为观众呈上 600 平方米的多功能艺术空间（UOB Art space），在艺
术空间内，我们围绕可持续发展这一主题，通过丰富多元的展览、
论坛及工作坊，共同探讨艺术如何以可持续的方式，反思当下，塑
造未来。In collaboration with the Art and Design Education FutureLab (FutureLab), 
we launched 'Evoked by Ink', an ink art exhibition on 27 November 2021. The 
exhibition featured works from four well-established contemporary ink artists – 
Mr Wang Dongling, Mr He Saibang, Mr Han Feng and Mr Qiu Anxiong. Through 
the exhibition, the artists demonstrated how they have explored the possibilities 
and future of ink art. UOB China and FutureLab also jointly announced the launch 
of a campus edition of the UOB Art in Ink Awards in mainland China in 2022 to 
encourage young talents to pursue their passion in ink art.In 2021, we also supported FutureLab, China's only international art and design 
education fair as the Lead Partner for the third consecutive year. We hosted a 
600-square metre UOB Art Space themed 'art and sustainability' to inspire the 
public to discuss and to explore different aspects of sustainability through 
exhibitions, workshops and forums.艺术家刘轩齐特别呈上装置《平衡》，借这一作品反思失衡之后的世界对人
类的影响，倡导在快速发展和可持续之间找到一个平衡点
The art installation, Seesaw, was created for Mr Leo Liu's exhibition, which 
demonstrates the importance of balancing growth with sustainability.教博会“可持续城市之美”亲子工作坊带领孩子们放飞艺术想象，动手绘制没
有汽车和大型购物中心的城市
Children using props and paints to depict cities without vehicles and shopping malls 
and to reﬂect the beauty of sustainable cities大华银行中国首席财务官，首席数据官兼首席可持续发展官朱轩在“耕耘社区
之美”的论坛上，分享在共建可持续社区的进程中，金融机构所扮演的角色
Mr Brian Zhu, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Data Officer and Chief Sustainability 
Officer, UOB China, sharing his views on the role of the banking industry in 
supporting the transition to a more sustainable future4243管理层报告
2021 in Review共创美育新未来2020 年，我们联合多家机构启动了“共创美育新未来”行动计划，以
提升各界对美育的理解度和接受度，共兴美育资源，共创美育未来，
共赏美丽世界。2021 年，我们启动了将美育送进云南偏远地区的乡
村美育计划和让艺术温暖都市打工人的都市美育系列活动。我们与禾邻社一同制定了三年乡村美育共创计划，分阶段打造一套
适用于偏远地区儿童的美育网络课程，以及美育绘本读物。2021 年，
在完成一系列前期招募和准备工作后，我们将共创试点选定在自然
资源丰富、文化多元的云南省丽江市玉龙县老君山自然保护中心。9
天的云南共创营，由艺术家、自然保护专家、人文专家、当地教师
和专业教研团队参与，通过他们实地采风、工作坊讨论和试讲，并
结合当地丰富的自然人文特色，共同开发和录制了一套合适当地孩
子们的艺术课程。下一步，我们也计划将这一套课程逐步推广到云
南当地多家乡村小学。艺术疗愈人心作为都市美育项目的重要内容，我们与陆家嘴金融城发展基金会及
脑米诺，合力打造了艺术疗愈公共项目的“空盒游戏”。这一艺术疗
愈项目受启发于心理沙盘游戏，洞悉隐匿的潜在意识，发现更好的
自己。2021 年，我们共举办四期工作坊，令近百位不同年龄段的参
与者，体验艺术温暖心灵的力量。在“空盒游戏“工作坊里，每位参与者通过利用各种道具，在沙盘上构建自己
的内心世界，来探索自我。
At the workshops, participants chose toys and arranged them onto the sand tray to 
create a miniature world, a reﬂection of the participants' current or ideal life.44在共创营试课中，孩子们在艺术家启发下利用当地的植被物产做艺术拼贴
Students using ﬂowers and leaves to create collage artworksPreserving heritage through art educationIn 2020, we collaborated with six organisations to launch the 'Forging 
a Sustainable Future for Art Education' in a bid to bring together the 
strengths  of  each  partner  to  develop  different  programmes  for  art 
education and appreciation. We progressively rolled out an Art for Rural 
Children programme and an Art for Urban Workers programme.We signed a three-year Art for Rural Children programme with Helin 
Art. Our aim is to produce in phases a series of online courses and an art 
illustration book to help improve the quality of art education for rural 
schools. As part of the programme, we hosted a nine-day art camp at the 
Laojun Mountain Nature Reserve in Yunnan. The art camp was attended 
by artists, nature conservation experts, culture experts, education experts 
and teachers from local schools co-develop art courses for rural students. 
Through the camp, we created three art courses based on Yunnan's natural 
environment and cultural heritage and did a trial run at a local school. 
We plan to put these courses online and to bring art education to more 
children in the rural schools in Yunnan.Promoting mental wellness using artIn partnership with Nomena Art and Lujiazui Financial City Development 
Foundation, we launched the Art for Urban Worker programme in 2021. 
Under the programme, we hosted four sand tray therapy workshops 
for  office  workers,  their  children  and  the  public  to  enable  them  to 
boost mental well-being through art exploration. Close to a hundred 
participants joined the workshops.“未来希望幼儿班”学生利用鸡蛋和油彩习作大华银行“艺享家”课程
A student painting on eggs and an egg carton at one of the UOB Art Explorer's 
online art coursesDeveloping the young to their potentialSince 2019, we have been partnering Shanghai Huji Foundation, a non-
profit organisation, to support its Preschools of the Future programme 
to improve quality of preschool education for children aged three to six, 
especially for those in rural China.In 2021, besides continuing to support the preschool education in Longkan 
village, Ximeng County, Yunnan Province, we extended funds to another 
kindergarten in Zhenxiong County, Yunnan Province. As a result, the 
number of our beneﬁciaries doubled that of 2020.We not only funded the education fees and necessary supplies, but 
also sponsored initiatives to improve the quality of education through 
systematic management and professional guidance for teachers and local 
village committees. In addition, the Bank also brought UOB Art Explorer, 
the Group's online visual arts programme to preschool students to help 
them to learn and to explore art.Keeping  the  good  going  through  philanthropy,  partnerships  and 
participation2021  marked  our  tenth  year  participating  in  UOB  Group's  flagship 
volunteerism and fundraising event, UOB Global Heartbeat Run/Walk.点亮未来希望自 2019 年开始，我们就支持上海互济公益基金会“未来希望幼儿班”
项目，为偏远地区留守儿童提供学前教育和自我发展的机会。2021 年，在继续支持位于云南省普洱市西盟县龙坎村“未来希望幼儿班”
基础上，我们又增加资助了云南省昭通市镇雄县的一个“未来希望幼
儿班”，资助学生数量也翻了一番。我们不仅赞助学前儿童的教育经费和教学设备，也资助当地教师培
训和优质教学活动开展及资料的开发。同时，我们也为这些学生送
上大华银行“艺享家”线上创作课程，让他们体会艺术创作的乐趣。各类募捐志愿活动，汇聚各方爱心2021 年是我行第十年在中国举办集团标志性公益活动 —— 大华银行
全球“爱心公益跑 / 行”。The virtual event saw our colleagues, business partners and the public 
raise funds through sports, donations, Tencent gongyi, a mini talent show 
as well as online and ofﬂine charity sales.今年，这一活动继续以线上接力的形式由员工、客户和大众共同完
成。我行同事及其家人、合作伙伴和公众，积极进行健康运动打卡，
积累公益运动小时，这些公益时间也转化为相应的公益善款。我们
也通过腾讯公益在线募捐、公益账户募捐、才艺秀、线上和线下爱
心义卖，为公益筹款；我们还组织了员工爱心直播，由行内大咖带货，
推荐农产品及客户、同事们赞助的好物。我行三位高管担任爱心主播， 为同事们介绍爱心产品（从左至右：大华银行
大中华区人力资源主管洪晓燕，大华银行中国副行长兼环球金融部主管杨瑞
琪，大华银行中国商业银行部非南区主管黄莹）
Our senior leaders hosted the livestream charity sale event. (from left: Ms Amy 
Hong, Head of Human Resources, UOB Greater China; Mr Mark Yang, Alternative 
CEO and Head of Global Markets, UOB China; and Ms Christina Huang, Head of 
Commercial Banking, Non-South, UOB China)45管理层报告
2021 in Review本年度，大华银行中国通过多项筹款活动，募集善款近 44 万元人民
币。所筹资金均用于我行支持的乡村美育计划、“未来希望幼儿班”
项目及支援河南灾后恢复。We managed to raise close to RMB440,000, which went towards our 
Preschools of the Future and Art for Rural Children programme as well as 
relief efforts for the Henan ﬂoods.除了为慈善捐款捐物，我行志愿者本年度也贡献了 3,751 个公益小时，
切实通过自身技能和服务支持我行公益项目，共筑和谐美好社区。Besides monetary contributions, our colleagues united as one to give their 
time, skills and service to help build inclusive and caring communities. In 
2021, our colleagues clocked 3,751 hours of volunteer work.除了鼓励我行同事积极参与公益志愿项目以外，我们也支持合作伙
伴回馈社区。我们资助外籍人士中心（TEC）搭建其微信小程序“助
福”，以帮助外籍人士及上海的志愿社群，找寻合适的志愿项目、服
务机会并方便报名。管理自身对环境的影响，鼓励关爱保护环境We also championed volunteerism through partners to give back to 
the community. We funded The Expatriate Center (TEC), a non-profit 
organisation, to develop a WeChat mini-programme, 'Bless', to assist 
expatriates and the diverse volunteer population in Shanghai to ﬁnd and 
to sign up for volunteer opportunities.2021 年，我们积极采取行动减少能源和资源消耗，并利用科技手段
减轻因我们的运营对环境造成的负面影响。Managing our direct environmental impact and promoting environmental 
stewardship例如，作为提升效率和践行负责任商业理念的举措之一，2021 年 11
月我行在原有的增值税系统中增加了电子发票功能，为我行企业客
户和业务合作伙伴生成和签发加密电子发票，从而使我行耗纸量每
年可减少超过 13,000 张。7 月初，我行与多方携手推出“重塑  新生”计划，从环保、循环再利
用角度切入，呼吁同事、客户及公众从回收塑料瓶开始，身体力行
地为可持续发展做贡献。计划实施期间，全行同事共回收瓶身及瓶盖近 1.2 万个。这些回收物
已打包交给专业机构 P.E.T，用于制作帽子、鞋带、环保袋等时尚再
生单品。部分单品通过员工义卖，为“未来希望幼儿班”项目筹集善款，
剩余部分捐给我行所支持的公益项目。In 2021, we took actions to reduce energy and resource consumption and 
leverage technology to mitigate our environmental footprint arising from 
our operations.For example, as part of our efforts to move towards more efﬁcient and 
responsible business practices, we added e-invoice capabilities to our 
Value-Added-Tax system in November 2021. By generating and issuing 
encrypted e-invoices for our corporate clients and business partners, we 
can reduce more than 13,000 sheets of paper per year.In July 2021, we launched the UOB Heartbeat upcycling campaign to 
cultivate awareness of environmental protection among our colleagues, 
customers and the general public and to encourage responsibility through 
upcycling and recycling.Our colleagues and the public donated close to 12,000 used plastic 
bottles and caps. By working together with non-proﬁt organisation Plastic 
Ecological Transformer (P.E.T), we turned waste into fashion accessories 
such as tote bags and shoe laces. Some of these products were donated 
to underprivileged students in Yunnan province. We also hosted charity 
sales to sell these products to raise funds for our Preschools of the Future 
programme.46我行同事将废弃瓶子和瓶盖放到竹制回收桶里
A UOB China colleague placing used plastic bottles into the bamboo bin我们也携手陆家嘴金融城发展基金会，在我行总部大楼举办 “重塑 
新生”公益展，向公众普及塑料的环境影响和塑料废弃物回收再利用
的知识。同时我们也在同事间开展在线问答和“快‘塑’限时”工坊等活
动，唤醒环保意识，激发绿色灵感。本年度，我们与专业机构 Precious Plastic Shanghai 合作，为 100 多位
参与者，组织了三场不同形式的工作坊，通过让废弃塑料变废为宝
的形式，号召大家拥抱可持续的生活方式。自我行总部大华银行大厦 2018 年正式落成以来，我们每年都积极响
应“地球一小时”这一全球性节能活动。2021 年 3 月 27 日晚，我行总
部大华银行大厦如约熄灯，并号召员工关掉不必要的电器设备。我
们希望通过这一举措，唤醒员工和公众对于气候变化的意识。确保监管合规银行在维护金融体系的稳定和安全方面发挥着不可或缺的作用。在
大华银行中国，合规是重中之重。我行制定了健全的守则和流程以落实各项监管要求，并且确保我行
的报告系统符合相关监管机构的要求。例如，我行针对中国人民银行新发布的二代征信系统的报告标准，
对现有征信报告系统进行了相应升级。我们还积极响应监管要求，在个人网银上部署了 Internet 协议版本 6。在“快‘塑’ 限时”工作坊中，参与者体验如何利用塑料袋和包装
材料制作零钱包和手包
Participants learning how to make upcycled plastic coin pouches 
and purses from used plastic bags and bubble wraps at an upcycling 
workshopAs part of the upcycling campaign, we collaborated with Lujiazui Financial 
City Development Foundation to present an education exhibition at UOB 
Plaza. The exhibition displayed the environmental impacts of plastics and the 
different ways to prevent plastic pollution and to live more sustainably. We 
also hosted online quizzes and a workshop to raise colleagues' awareness on 
plastic pollution and share the beneﬁts of plastic upcycling.Throughout the year, we worked together with Precious Plastic Shanghai 
(PPSH)  to  organise  three  upcycling  workshops  for  more  than  100 
participants to share ideas on plastic upcycling and to help embrace a 
more eco-friendly lifestyle.Since our head ofﬁce building, UOB Plaza, opened in 2018, we have been 
participating in Earth Hour, a global annual event that calls for greater 
climate action. On 27 March 2021, we switched off the non-essential 
lights at UOB Plaza and asked all colleagues to turn off their non-essential 
electrical appliances to support global efforts to tackle climate change.Ensuring regulatory complianceBanks play an integral role in ensuring the stability and security of the 
ﬁnancial system. At UOB China, regulatory compliance is a top priority.The  Bank  has  robust  protocols  and  processes  in  place  to  address 
regulatory requirements and we maintain our reporting systems complying 
with the requirements of relevant authorities.For example, we upgraded our credit bureau reporting system adhering to 
the second Generation Credit Bureau reporting standards newly released 
by People's Bank of China.We also applied the Internet Protocol version 6 on our Personal Internet 
Banking to fulﬁl local regulatory requirements.47管理层报告
2021 in Review奖项及荣誉 
Awards and Accolades业务奖项2021 Triple A 资金、贸易、供应链及风险管理奖 — 《财资》•  最佳银行家奖（中国） — 最佳风险管理服务提供商
•  最佳贸易融资解决方案（中国） — 两项案例奖
•  最佳流动资金及投资解决方案（中国） — 五项案例奖
•  最佳结构性贸易融资解决方案（中国） — 大宗商品领域案例奖•  最佳供应链解决方案 — 消费品及大宗商品两项案例奖2021 年度银行家之选 — 《亚洲银行家》•  中国最佳金融供应链管理Leading in banking excellenceThe Triple A Awards 2021 - Treasury, Trade Supply Chain and Risk 
Management - The Asset•  Best Banks in China - Best Service Provider in RiskManagement•  Best Supply Chain Solution
•  Best Liquidity and Investments Solution
•  Best Trade Finance Solution
•  Best Structured Trade Finance SolutionThe Asian Banker China Awards 2021 - The Asian Banker•  Banker's Choice Awards – Best Financial Supply ChainManagement in China2020 年度银行间外汇市场优秀会员 — 中国外汇交易中心China Foreign Exchange Trade System 2020•  最佳人民币外汇会员
•  最佳人民币外汇远掉会员•  Best Renminbi Foreign Exchange Member
•  Best Renminbi Foreign Exchange Swap Member2021 第一财经金融价值榜 — 第一财经集团2021 China Financial Value Ranking - Yicai Media Group•  最佳业务创新外资银行•  Best Foreign Bank for Innovation in Business2021 年上期标准仓单交易平台优秀交易商 —上海期货交易所2021 SHFE Standard Warehouse Warrant Trading System - Shanghai 
Futures Exchange•  优秀金融机构•  Best Trading Member2021 第四届零售银行领导者年会 — 士研咨询Retail Banking Leader Forum 2021 - Shine Consultant大华银行中国企业银行部主管辛韬代表我行出席2021中国企业社会责任高峰
论坛并领取可持续发展创新案例奖
Ms Cynthia Xin, Head of Corporate Banking, UOB China receiving the Most 
Innovative Case in Sustainability Award at the 2021 Summit Forum on Corporate 
Social Responsibility in China可持续相关奖项Championing sustainability for the long term2021 中国年度最佳雇主 — 智联招聘2021 China Best Employer Awards - Zhaopin.com•  最佳雇主校招案例奖•  Outstanding Campus Recruitment Award2021 中国企业社会责任高峰论坛 —《中国经营报》2021 Summit Forum on Corporate Social Responsibility in China - 
China Business Journal•  可持续发展创新案例奖•  Most Innovative Case in Sustainability•  最佳零售银行客户体验奖•  The Best Annual Award for Outstanding Experience of Retail2021 ESG 先锋 60 — 上海报业集团 | 界面新闻2021 "ESG Pioneer 60" - Shanghai Media Group and Jiemian2021 年度优秀机构 —上海票据交易所
•  优秀跨境贸易融资交易机构BankingShanghai Commercial Paper Exchange 2021•  Outstanding Financial Institution for Cross-Border TradeFinancing•  年度社会责任优秀奖•  Best Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Company of the Year2021 中国年度最佳雇主 — 智联招聘2021 China Best Employer Awards - Zhaopin.com•  最佳雇主 100 强
•  最受女性关注雇主•  Top 100 China Best Employers
•  Best Employers for Female Employees第十一届中国公益节 — 数央网The 11th China Philanthropy Festival - syobserve.com•  2021 年度公益创新奖
•  2021 年度公益项目奖 — “共筑美育新未来”•  The Most Innovative CSR Company
•  Best CSR Programme of the Year - 'Forging a SustainableFuture for Art Education'大华银行中国荣获第一财经授予的最佳跨境金融服务外资银行奖项，大华银行中国副
行长兼环球金融部主管杨瑞琪（中 ）代表我行领奖
UOB China was honoured Foreign Bank of the Year for Innovation in Business and Mr Mark 
Yang, Head of Global Markets, UOB China (middle) received the award presented by Yicai 
Media Group.4849公司治理
Corporate Governance大华银行中国始终坚持最高的公司治理标准并就此严格遵守《中华
人民共和国公司法》、《中华人民共和国商业银行法》、《中华人
民共和国外资银行管理条例》及其实施细则等相关监管要求。我行董事会及其下设专业委员会、监事、高级管理层按照相关法律
法规和《大华银行（中国）有限公司章程》（以下简称《公司章程》）
所赋予的职责，依法独立履行各自的权利与义务。关于董事与董事会董事会现有五名董事，其中独立董事两名。董事会的人数、构成符
合监管要求和《公司章程》的规定。现任董事会成员名单及其职务
如下：UOB China is committed to upholding good corporate governance and is 
guided by the following in this regard:
a)  the People's Republic of China (PRC) Company Law;
b)  the PRC Commercial Bank Law;
c)  the PRC Regulations on Administration of Foreign-Funded Banks and 
the Rules for Implementing the PRC Regulations on Administration of 
Foreign-Funded Banks; andd)  other relevant regulatory requirements.The Board of Directors (Board), Board Committees, the Supervisors and 
Senior Management perform their respective duties according to the laws 
and regulations of the country and the provisions in the Bank's Articles of 
Association.Board of DirectorsThe current Board comprises ﬁve members, two of whom are independent 
directors. The size and composition of the Board comply with regulatory 
requirements and the provisions in the Bank's Articles of Association. 
Details of the Board members are shown in the table below:姓名
Name黄一宗
Wee Ee Cheong性别
Gender男
Male年龄
Age69符懋赞
Peter Foo Moo Tan男
Male叶杨诗明
Christine Ip刘二飞
Liu Erh Fei吴玉华
Wu Yu Hua女
Female男
Male男
Male59586363职务
Position本届任期
Current Term of Ofﬁce董事长 / 非执行非独立董事
Chairman/Non-executive and non-independent 
director2019 年 9 月 17 日至 2022 年 9 月 16 日
From 17 September 2019 to 16 September 2022执行非独立董事 ( 行长兼首席执行官 )
Executive and non-independent director  
(President and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer)2019 年 10 月 28 日至 2022 年 10 月 27 日
From 28 October 2019 to 27 October 2022非执行非独立董事
Non-executive and non-independent director2020 年 7 月 12 日至 2023 年 7 月 11 日
From 12 July 2020 to 11 July 2023独立董事
Independent director独立董事
Independent director2019 年 11 月 16 日至 2022 年 11 月 15 日
From 16 November 2019 to 15 November 20222021 年 6 月 6 日至 2024 年 6 月 5 日
From 6 June 2021 to 5 June 2024董事会的主要职能如下：The main responsibilities of the Board are to:•  为银行指明战略方向，批准银行战略发展方案，批准银行的经营计划和年度预算及绩效考核指标；•  确定银行的环境、社会及治理关键影响因素，要考虑到发展战略
的可持续性，包括重大的环境、社会及治理因素，并监督重大的
环境、社会及治理情况的管理及监控；•  审核并监督银行的业务及财务表现以及批准银行真实公允的财务决算方案；50•  provide strategic directions, approve strategic business initiatives, and 
approve business plans, annual budget and key performance indicators;
•  determine the environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors 
that are material to the Bank, consider sustainability issues, including 
material ESG factors, in formulating its strategies, and oversee the 
management and monitoring of the material ESG factors;
review and monitor the business and financial performance of the 
Bank, and approve true and fair ﬁnancial statements;••  决定银行的资本负债结构；
•  设定股息分配方案以及宣告股息；
•  筹划董事会和高级管理层的继任事宜；
•  确保高效的管理团队；
•  监督建立全面的、针对各种风险类型的风险管理政策、程序和基础设施set dividend policy and declare dividends;•  determine an appropriate capital/debt structure;
• 
•  perform succession planning for the Board and Senior Management;
•  put in place an effective management team;
•  oversee  the  establishment  of  comprehensive  risk  managementpolicies, processes and infrastructure to manage various types of risk;•  决定银行的风险容忍度、风险偏好、风险状况并核准相关信贷审•  determine the risk tolerance, risk appetite and risk proﬁle of the Bank批限额；•  审核并监督银行的风险管理、内部审计和合规部门职能的履行，•and approve credit discretionary limits;
review and monitor the risk management, internal audit and compliance 
functions and ensure that these functions are adequately resourced;并确保对其资源配置的充分性；•  评价行长 / 首席执行官以及高级管理层的工作表现；
•  确保管理层制订适当的政策及程序以避免为自己谋取不正当利益的情况或其它利益冲突的产生；•  审查并核准银行的有关关联交易的控制体系；
•  建立公司文化、价值观和道德标准；
•  审查银行的信息披露政策并对所披露信息的真实性、准确性和完整性负责；•  审议及批准董事会及其下属委员会架构及议事规程；
•  审议并向股东建议董事费；
•  向股东报告；及
•  履行股东授予的其他职权和法律、法规以及银行章程要求的其他职权。董事会每年召开四次定期会议，并在需要时召开临时董事会议。2021 年，我行共召开董事会会议四次，会议均达到法定最低出席人数。根据银行章程的规定，董事会还可通过传签的方式做出决议。2021 年，我行董事会还通过传签的方式，做出了四项决议。会议的召集程序、出席人数、议事程序、表决程序、董事会决议的
作出程序及其内容等各方面均符合中华人民共和国有关法律法规和
《公司章程》的有关要求。所有董事会会议记录及传签决议由我行
董事会秘书保存。•  evaluate the performance of the President and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer(CEO) and Senior Management;•  ensure that Management establishes appropriate procedures and 
processes to avoid situations that may give rise to improper personal 
gains or conﬂicts of interests;
review  and  approve  the  Bank's  system  of  controls  relating  to 
connected transactions;
set corporate culture, values and ethical standards;
review the Bank's information disclosure policy and be responsible for 
the authenticity, accuracy and integrity of the information disclosed;
review and approve the composition and terms of reference of the Board 
and Board Committees.• 
•••report to the shareholder; and•  endorse directors' fees for recommendation to the shareholder;
• 
•  exercise such other power as authorised by the shareholder and 
perform such other functions as required by relevant laws, regulations 
and the Bank's Articles of Association.The Board meets at least four times a year. Additional Board meetings 
would be convened whenever necessary.In 2021, the Board held four meetings. The quorum for each meeting was met.The Bank's Articles of Association also provide for the Board to make 
decisions by way of circular resolutions.The Board passed four resolutions by way of circulation in 2021.The procedures for convening Board meetings, the quorum required 
for constituting the meetings, the proceedings at the meetings, and the 
procedures for voting and passing of resolutions were in compliance with 
the requirements of applicable PRC laws and regulations and the Bank's 
Articles of Association. The minutes of all Board meetings and circular 
resolutions were properly maintained by the Company Secretary.51公司治理
Corporate Governance关于董事会下设专业委员会Board Committees大华银行（中国）董事会目前下设五个专业委员会，即：执行委员会、
关联交易控制委员会、审计委员会、提名及薪酬委员会和董事会风
险管理委员会。The Board has delegated specific functions to five Board Committees, 
namely, Executive Committee (EXCO), Connected Transactions Control 
Committee (CTCC), Audit Committee (AC), Nominating and Remuneration 
Committee (NRC) and Board Risk Management Committee (BRMC).(1) 执行委员会
a.  委员会成员：黄一宗先生（主席）、符懋赞先生、叶杨诗明女士。(1) Executive Committee
a.  The EXCO members are Mr Wee Ee Cheong (Chairman), Mr Peter Foob.  执行委员会的主要职能如下：Moo Tan and Mrs Christine Ip.•  管理银行的营运，包括制定内部制度、业务发展策略，监督银行业务计划的执行，批准相关的信贷额度；及b.  The EXCO oversees the following matters:•  处理除行长兼首席执行官及副行长以外的银行人力资源管理事项。•  the  Bank's  business  operations,  including  formulating  internal 
policies  and  business  strategies,  monitoring  the  execution  of 
business plans and approving relevant credit limits; andc.  2021 年，为疫情期间提高议事效率，执行委员会采用了线上审批•  human  resource  matters,  except  for  those  pertaining  to  the系统审议 / 批准了相关事项，因此未召开会议 。President and CEO and Deputy President.(2) 关联交易控制委员会
a.  委员会成员：吴玉华先生（主席），叶杨诗明女士，刘二飞先生。c.b.  关联交易控制委员会的主要职能如下：•  建立并执行关联交易管理制度；
•  管理关联交易并控制由此而生的风险；
•  审查一般关联交易；及
•  审核重大关联交易并提交董事会批准。In 2021, the EXCO leveraged electronic means to facilitate the review 
and approval of matters and to improve efficiency of discussions 
during the COVID-19 pandemic. Hence, it did not hold any meeting in 
the year.(2) Connected Transactions Control Committee
a.  The CTCC members are Mr Wu Yu Hua (Chairman), Mrs Christine Ipand Mr Liu Erh Fei.(3) 审计委员会
a.  委员会成员：刘二飞先生 ( 主席 )、叶杨诗明女士、吴玉华先生。(3) Audit Committee
a.  The AC members are Mr Liu Erh Fei (Chairman), Mrs Christine Ip andMr Wu Yu Hua.b.  审计委员会的主要职能为审议 / 监督以下相关事宜：•  财务报告，内部、外部审计计划及报告；
•  内部会计控制及重大内部控制的充分性 ;
•  内部及外部审计的范围及结果；
•  有关会计准则或会计实务的质量及重大变化；
•  内部审计资源的充分性；
•  内部审计及外部审计的重大发现；
•  全面治理框架的建立，包括举报事件管理的政策和程序；
•  批准外部审计费用；及
•  外部审计机构及内部审计部门负责人的提名。c.  2021 年，审计委员会共召开会议四次。(4) 提名及薪酬委员会
a.  委员会成员：刘二飞先生（主席），黄一宗先生，吴玉华先生，叶杨诗明女士。b.  The  AC's  main  responsibilities  are  to  review/oversee  all  mattersrelating to:
•financial statements, and internal and external audit plans and 
reports;•  the adequacy of internal accounting controls and material internalcontrols;•  the scope and results of internal and external audits;
•  the quality of, and any signiﬁcant change in, accounting policies orpractices;•  the adequacy of internal audit resources;
•  signiﬁcant ﬁndings of internal and external auditors;
•  the establishment of a comprehensive governance framework, 
including the policy and procedures for managing whistle-blowing 
cases;•  the approval of external auditor's fees; and
•  the  nominations  of  the  external  auditor  and  the  head  of  theb.  提名及薪酬委员会的主要职能如下：internal audit function.•  就董事会及其下属专业委员会推荐候选人；
•  设计董事、主要高级管理人员（包含行长兼首席执行官以及副行长）的薪酬结构并报董事会批准；及•  建立一套正规的机制以评价董事会的整体效率，董事会下设各委员会及董事的贡献。c.  2021 年，关联交易控制委员共召开会议一次。b.  The CTCC's main responsibilities are to::c.  2021 年，提名及薪酬委员会召开会议一次。d.  2021 年，关联交易控制委员还通过传签的方式，做出了三项决议。•  establish the framework for managing connected transactions;
•  oversee the management of connected transactions and associated risks;
• 
•review non-material connected transactions; and
review and recommend material connected transactions to the 
Board for approval.c.  The CTCC held one meeting in 2021.d.  The CTCC passed three resolutions by way of circulation in 2021..d.  2021 年，提名及薪酬委员会还通过传签的方式，做出了一项决议。c.  The AC held four meetings in 2021.(4)  Nominating and Remuneration Committee
a.  The NRC members are Mr Liu Erh Fei (Chairman), Mr Wee Ee Cheong,Mr Wu Yu Hua and Mrs Christine Ip.b.  The NRC's main responsibilities are to:••recommend nominees for appointment to the Board and Board 
Committees;
recommend a framework for the remuneration of directors and 
key senior executives (including the President and CEO and Deputy 
President) for the Board's approval; and•  establish a mechanism for the formal assessment of the effectiveness 
of the Board as a whole, the contribution of the various  Board 
Committees and individual directors.c.  The NRC held one meeting in 2021.d.  The NRC passed one resolution by way of circulation in 2021.5253公司治理
Corporate Governance(5)  董事会风险管理委员会
a.  委员会成员：叶杨诗明女士（主席）、吴玉华先生、刘二飞先生。(5) Board Risk Management Committee
a.  The BRMC members are Mrs Christine Ip (Chairman), Mr Wu Yu Hua关于监事Supervisorsb.  董事会风险管理委员会的主要职能如下：•  审查银行的风险管理策略、政策和风险偏好陈述，并提交董事b.  The BRMC's main responsibilities are to:and Mr Liu Erh Fei.会批准；•  确保风险管理体系健康独立，及其建立和运作符合董事会批准的策略和政策；•  在识别、衡量、监督和控制各种风险（包括欺诈风险）的过程中，审查和评估银行风险管理架构及实践的充分性和有效性；•  审查管理层关于风险敞口、风险组合结构及其管理和风险监控的定期报告；及•  定期向董事会报告并提示董事会注意负面风险事件或趋势。c.  2021 年，董事会风险管理委员会共召开会议四次。•review and recommend risk management strategies, policies and 
risk appetite statement of the Bank for the Board's approval;••  oversee  the  establishment  and  operation  of  a  robust  and 
independent risk management system that is consistent with the 
strategies and policies approved by the Board;
review and assess the adequacy and effectiveness of the Bank's risk 
management framework and practices for identifying, measuring, 
monitoring and controlling various types of risks (including fraud 
risk);
review regular management reports on risk exposures, risk portfolio 
composition  and  the  management  and  monitoring  of  such 
exposures and portfolio composition; and
report to the Board regularly and highlight any adverse risk event 
or trend for the Board's attention.••c.  The BRMC held four meetings in 2021.大华银行（中国）现有监事两名，现任监事黄祖耀博士及副监事詹
道存教授均由股东委派。监事的委任符合监管要求和《公司章程》
的规定。The Bank has two Supervisors who were nominated by the shareholder 
and appointed in accordance with regulatory requirements and the Bank's 
Articles of Association. They are Dr Wee Cho Yaw (Supervisor) and Prof 
Cham Tao Soon (Deputy Supervisor).监事的职权主要包括：•  检查银行财务和财务报表；
•  监督董事、高级管理人员的行为，以确保银行审慎经营，并在必要时对董事、高级管理人员的不当行为予以纠正；•  维护银行、股东及其他利益相关者特别是存款人的合法权益；及
•  法律、法规及银行章程规定的应由监事行使的其他职权和股东授予其行使的其他职权。2021 年，监事严格按照《中华人民共和国公司法》和《公司章程》
等规定，积极履行对董事会和高级管理层实施监督的职责。在履行
职责的过程中，监事接受并审阅有关本行经营及风险管理状况的常
规报告，对我行的经营情况、财务状况、消费者权益保护以及我行
董事和高级管理人员履行职责的合法合规性进行了有效地监督，同
时会见了董事及高级管理人员，并列席董事会会议。The main responsibilities of the Supervisors include:• 
••inspecting the accounts and ﬁnancial statements of the Bank;
supervising the Board and Senior Management to ensure that the Bank 
is run in a prudent manner and that the Board and Senior Management 
take corrective actions where necessary;
safeguarding  the  lawful  rights  and  interests  of  the  Bank,  the 
shareholder and other stakeholders, particularly the depositors; and•  exercising such other power and authority pursuant to relevant laws, 
regulations and the Bank's Articles of Association, and as may be 
authorised by the shareholder.In 2021, the Supervisors duly discharged their responsibility of supervising 
the Board and Senior Management strictly, in accordance with relevant 
requirements, including the provisions under the PRC Company Law and 
the Bank's Articles of Association. In discharging their responsibility, the 
Supervisors received and reviewed regular reports on the Bank's operations 
and risk management, and conducted supervision of the operations and 
ﬁnancial position, and protection of consumer rights of the Bank and the 
performance of the Directors and Senior Management. The Supervisors 
also met with Directors and Senior Management, and attended Board 
meetings.5455公司治理
Corporate Governance独立董事履行职责情况Performance of Independent Directors2021 年度，我行设两名独立董事，分别为刘二飞先生及吴玉华先生。
其中，刘二飞先生担任董事会下设的提名及薪酬委员会和审计委员
会主席，以及关联交易控制委员会和董事会风险管理委员会成员。
吴玉华先生担任董事会下设的关联交易控制委员会主席，以及提名
及薪酬委员会、审计委员会和董事会风险管理委员会成员。报告期内，独立董事均勤勉尽责地履行了董事义务，认真审议了各
项议案。独立董事为董事会、董事会下设专业委员会切实履行决策
和监督职能发挥了积极作用，维护了我行的整体利益以及消费者、
存款人、股东及其他利益相关者的合法权益。There were two independent directors on the Board in 2021, namely Mr 
Liu Erh Fei and Mr Wu Yu Hua. Mr Liu Erh Fei is the Chairman of the NRC 
and AC, as well as a member of the CTCC and BRMC. Mr Wu Yu Hua is the 
Chairman of the CTCC, as well as a member of the NRC, AC and BRMC.In the year under review, all independent directors discharged their duties 
diligently and responsibly. They contributed to the decision-making and 
oversight by the Board and Board Committees and safeguarded the rights 
and overall interests of the Bank, consumers, depositors, the shareholder 
and other stakeholders.(1) 2021 年独立董事出席董事会会议的情况(1) Attendance of Independent Directors'  at Board Meetings in 2021独立董事姓名
Name of Independent 
Director应参加
（次）
No of Board Meetings 
Held出席
（次）
No of Board Meetings 
Attended缺席
（次）
Absent with Apologies备注
Remarks刘二飞
Liu Erh Fei吴玉华
Wu Yu Hua444400//(2) 独立董事对我行有关事项提出异议的情况
2021 年，独立董事均未对我行本年度的议案事项提出异议。监事及董事知情权银行监事及董事能自由与管理层进行沟通并获取银行信息。银行就
财务信息、风险管理、运营管理等事项向监事及董事提供全面及时
的报告以便其做出进一步的会议讨论。银行监事及董事有权与公司
秘书进行沟通，从而了解最新的法规变化及公司治理方面的实施情
况。监事及董事在履行其职责时可以根据需要独立寻求专业意见，
由此产生的费用，将由银行承担。(2) Dissent of Independent Directors
In 2021, Management did not give cause for the independent directors to 
record their dissent on any matter.Supervisors' and Directors' Access to InformationThe Supervisors and Directors have unfettered access to information 
and Management, and are provided with timely and comprehensive 
ﬁnancial, risk management and operational reports to facilitate informed 
discussions during meetings. They also have access to the Company 
Secretary  whose  responsibilities  include  advising  the  Supervisors 
and Directors on regulatory changes and best practices in corporate 
governance.  The  Supervisors  and  Directors  may  seek  independent 
professional advice in the course of discharging their duties at the Bank's 
expense.高级管理层成员构成姓名Name职务PositionSenior Management Structure性别Sex出生 
年份 
Year of 
Birth任期
起始 
Assignment 
Commencement最高学历
 
Highest Academic Degree相关经验
年限
Relevant 
Years of 
Experience符懋赞
FOO Moo Tan
Peter行长兼首席执行官
President and Chief 
Executive Ofﬁcer
(CEO)1962男
Male2016 年 12 月
Dec 2016杨瑞琪
YANG Rui Qi
Mark郑濬
ZHENG Jun
Adaline1973男
Male1980女
Female副行长
Alternate Country CEO
兼任环球金融部主管
Head, Global Markets副行长
Alternate Country CEO
批发银行部主管
Head, Wholesales 
Banking2020 年 10 月
Oct 2020
2016 年 10 月
Oct 20162021 年 4 月
Apr 2021
2018 年 2 月
Feb 2018新加坡国立大学房地产管理学士荣誉学位
Bachelor of Science, Estate Management, Honours
National University of Singapore
特许金融分析师 
Chartered Financial Analyst澳大利亚墨尔本大学应用金融硕士
Master of Applied Finance 
The University of Melbourne, Australia上海交通大学国际金融学士
Bachelor of International Finance
Shanghai Jiao Tong University杨国林
YEONG Kok Leng
Vincent风险管理部主管
Head, Risk 
Management卢绍康
LO Siu-Hong
Rodney渠道及数字化部主管
Head, Channels and 
Digitalisation男
Male男
Male19692021 年 12 月
Dec 2021新加坡国立大学工商管理学士
Bachelor of Business Administration
National University of Singapore19672014 年 6 月
Jun 2014乔治华盛顿大学
项目领导、管理及沟通 ；项目经理的合同管理课程
Project Leadership, Management and Communications 
Contracting for Project Managers
The George Washington University, USA郑裕龙
CHENG Yu Lung 
Rahmi科技及营运部主管
Head, Technology and 
Operations男
Male19642021 年 12 月
Dec 2021伦敦国王学院电子工程硕士
Master of Science 
King's College, University of London, UK朱轩
ZHU Xuan
Brian辛韬
XIN Tao
Cynthia黄莹
HUANG Ying
Christina首席财务官
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer男
Male19802018 年 7 月
Jul 2018企业银行部主管
Head, Corporate 
Banking商业银行部
非南区主管
Head, Commercial Banking 
- Non-South China1981女
Female2020 年 1 月
Jan 20201972女
Female2018 年 4 月
Apr 2018复旦大学会计硕士
Master of Professional Accounting
Fudan University英国诺丁汉大学经济学硕士
Master of Science in Economics
University of Nottingham, UK英国加的夫大学商学院国际经济、金融与银行学硕士
Master of Science in International
Economics Banking and Finance
Cardiff University, UK袁泉
YUAN Quan
Albert交易银行部主管
Head, Transaction 
Banking1976男
Male2018 年 5 月
May 2018日本立教大学经济学硕士
Master of Economics
Rikkyo University, Japan342019282830191527185657公司治理
Corporate Governance姓名Name职务Position性别Gender出生 
年份 
Year of 
Birth任期
起始 
Assignment 
Commencement最高学历
 
Highest Academic Degree相关经验
年限
Relevant 
Years of 
Experience姓名Name职务Position性别Gender出生 
年份 
Year of 
Birth任期
起始 
Assignment 
Commencement最高学历
 
Highest Academic Degree相关经验
年限
Relevant 
Years of 
Experience张晓
ZHANG Xiao
Andy跨国企业银行部主管
Head, Multinational 
Corporate
兼任上海分行行长
General Manager of 
Shanghai Branch1971男
Male2014 年 9 月
Sep 20142018 年 12 月
Dec 2018上海财经大学 - 美国韦伯斯特大学工商管理硕士
Master of Business Administration
Shanghai University of Finance and Economics and Webster 
University28林培丰
LIM Pei Hong
Winston个人金融服务部主管
Head, Personal 
Financial Services1975男
Male2015 年 10 月
Oct 2015新加坡南洋理工大学会计学士荣誉学位
Bachelor of Accountancy, Honours
Nanyang Technological University, Singapore郑伟仁
TEH Wee Jin企业银行信贷部主管
Head, Corporate Credit男
Male19582008 年 9 月
Sep 2008新西兰大学商学士
Bachelor of Commerce
University of Otago, New Zealand杨健顺
YEOH Kian Soon 
Benedict商业银行信贷部主管
Head, Commercial 
Credit男
Male19702014 年 7 月
Jul 2014美国卡耐基梅隆大学理学学士
Bachelor of Science
Carnegie Mellon University, USA洪晓燕
HONG Xiao Yan
Amy人力资源部主管
Head, Human 
Resources1977女
Female2007 年 12 月
Dec 2007复旦大学工商管理硕士
Master of Business Administration
Fudan University张飒
ZHANG Sa
Sarah内部审计部主管
Head, Internal Audit1972女
Female2016 年 1 月
Jan 2016美国纽约州立水牛城大学工商管理硕士
Master of Corporate Finance and Accounting
State University of New York at Buffalo, USA王媛
WANG Yuan
Eliza法律与秘书部主管
Head, Legal and 
Secretariat1974女
Female2007 年 12 月
Dec 2007复旦大学工商管理硕士
Master of Business Administration
Fudan University熊大永
XIONG Da Yong合规部主管
Head, Compliance1970男
Male2017 年 8 月
Aug 2017复旦大学金融学博士
Doctor of Finance
Fudan University1977女
Female2011 年 5 月
May 2011英国利兹大学国际市场管理学硕士
Master of Science in International Marketing Management
University of Leeds, UK男
Male男
Male19732018 年 7 月
Jul 2018美国南阿拉巴马州大学理学士
Bachelor of Science
University of South Alabama, USA19702019 年 8 月
Aug 20192019 年 3 月
Mar 2019香港理工大学中国商贸管理理学硕士
Master of Science in China Business Studies
Hong Kong Polytechnic University策略通讯与品牌部
Head,  Strategic 
Communications and 
Brand北京分行行长
General Manager of 
Beijing Branch深圳分行行长
General Manager of 
Shenzhen Branch
兼任商业银行部
南区主管
Head, Commercial 
Banking - South China付玥
FU Yue
Sabrina林联坚
LIM Lian Kian盛天有
SHING Tin Yau
Gordon5820402624282518202527曾小婷
ZENG Xiao Ting
Christina广州分行行长
General Manager of 
Guangzhou Branch1972女
Female2021 年 12 月
Dec 2021新西兰怀卡托大学工商管理硕士
Master of Business Administration
The University of Waikato, New Zealand胡维
HU Wei
Tony缑微
GOU Wei
Helen何川
HE Chuan
Charlie苏州分行行长
General Manager of 
Suzhou Branch沈阳分行行长
General Manager of 
Shenyang Branch成都分行行长
General Manager of 
Chengdu Branch周晓舟
ZHOU Xiao Zhou
Alan天津分行行长
General Manager of 
Tianjin Branch叶艳
YE Yan
Beicy杭州分行行长
General Manager of 
Hangzhou Branch蔡福耀
CHUA Hock Yew
Alexander重庆分行行长
General Manager of 
Chongqing Branch蔡炜玲
CAI Wei Ling
Cissy厦门分行行长
General Manager of 
Xiamen Branch邵一宁
SHAO Yi Ning昆明分行行长
General Manager of 
Kunming Branch苏润馨
SOO June Hsing
June中山分行行长
General Manager of 
Zhongshan Branch谢颖
XIE Ying
Grace上海自贸试验区支行
行长 
Branch Manager of 
Shanghai Pilot Free 
Trade Zone Sub-Branch1978男
Male2021 年 11 月
Nov 2021法国国立科学技术与管理学院工商管理硕士
Master of Business Administration
Conservatoire National des Arts et Métiers, France1977女
Female2020 年 8 月
Aug 2020辽宁大学经济学学士及法学学士
Bachelor of Economics and Laws
Liaoning University男
Male男
Male19792021 年 11 月
Nov 2021新西兰梅西大学银行管理学硕士
Master of Management in Banking
Massey University, New Zealand19822020 年 4 月
Apr 2020英国赫特福德大学会计金融学士
Bachelor of Accounting and Finance
University of Hertfordshire, UK1971女
Female2018 年 12 月
Dec 2018哈尔滨工程大学电子工程学士
Bachelor of Electrical Engineer
Harbin Engineering University1972男
Male2018 年 1 月
Jan 2018加拿大多伦多大学经济学学士荣誉学位
Bachelor of Commerce, Honours
University of Toronto, Canada1981女
Female2020 年 7 月
Jul 2020英国中兰开夏大学商务金融和国际商务硕士
Master of Business Finance and International Business
University of Central Lancashire, UK1983女
Female2020 年 6 月
Jun 2020云南财经大学市场学学士
Bachelor of Marketing
Yunnan University of Finance and Economics1975女
Female2019 年 8 月
Aug 20191983女
Female2020 年 8 月
Aug 2020国立台湾大学财务金融硕士
Master of Business Administration
National Taiwan University上海交通大学应用语言学硕士
Master of Applied Linguistics
Shanghai Jiao Tong University陈晓苓
CHEN Xiao Ling上海徐家汇支行行长
Branch Manager of 
Xujiahui Sub-Branch1984女
Female2018 年 6 月
Jun 2018上海理工大学计算机科学与技术学士
Bachelor of Engineering (Science and Technology)
The University of Shanghai for Science and Technology杜艳
DU Yan
Cherry上海静安支行行长
Branch Manager of 
Jing'An Sub-Branch1975女
Female2016 年 5 月
May 2016比利时联合商学院高级工商管理硕士
Master of Business Administration
United Business Institutes, Belgium1621201514272415152113131959公司治理
Corporate Governance
薪酬管理
Remuneration薪酬政策与管理大华银行中国薪酬政策的目标是提供具有市场竞争力的薪酬水平使
得银行能够合理并较为恰当地吸引、保留和激励与本行组织文化、
价值观相契合，与岗位胜任力相匹配的高素质人才。同时，该薪酬
政策体现了本行将薪酬支付与银行的业绩、长期利益以及风险管控
有效的结合。该薪酬政策适用于本行全体正式员工。根据本行薪酬政策的规定，员工的薪酬水平主要与集团、员工所在
的部门及个人的绩效考核结果相挂钩。绩效考核的目标设置则体现
了本行对该部门及员工个人对于风险管控及长中短期绩效的要求和
期望。此外，本行从事合规和风险管理部门员工的薪酬水平与其所
监督的业务条线的绩效水平相独立。本行可变薪酬包括绩效奖金以及限制型股票，该支付方式可以合理
地将薪酬与本行的绩效以及与当前和未来的风险挂钩。根据中国银
行保险监督管理委员会颁布的《商业银行稳健薪酬监管指引》，本
行的高级管理人员以及对风险有重要影响岗位上的员工有部分可变
薪酬将被递延支付。根据本行最新的薪酬递延框架，主要高级管理
人员可变薪酬的递延比例为 50%，其他高级管理人员以及对风险有
重要影响岗位上的员工可变薪酬的递延比例为 40%，该递延支付工
具以限制型股票或递延奖金（如适用）的方式进行操作。为了更好地发挥薪酬在银行治理中的积极作用，大华银行中国已成
立了提名及薪酬委员会（以下简称“委员会”），该委员会由四名董
事组成，其中委员会主席由独立董事担任。报告期内，委员会共召
开会议 1 次。Compensation for Board Directors, Supervisors and Senior 
ManagementIn  2021,  the  Bank  paid  a  total  of  RMB693,000  directors'  fees  to  the 
members of NRC, and paid a total of RMB400,000 supervisors' fees to the 
supervisors.As of 31 December 2021, there are total 32 senior executives and material 
risk takers whose roles have material impacts on the Bank's risk exposure. 
The total compensation for these executives and material risk takers 
in  2021  was  RMB78,512,848,  including  RMB47,569,085  fixed  pay  and 
RMB30,943,763 variable pay.The Bank currently has no explicit and/or implicit adjustments to the 
deferred pay and/or remained pay.Remuneration Policy and Management董事、监事和高级管理人员薪酬2021 年本行向提名及薪酬委员会成员支付的董事费总计为人民币
693,000 元，向监事支付的监事费总计为人民币 400,000 元。截至 2021 年 12 月 31 日，本行共 32 名高级管理人员及对风险有重要
影响岗位上的员工，在 2021 年我行对其支付的薪酬总额为人民币
78,512,848 元，其中固定薪酬总额为人民币 47,569,085 元，可变薪酬
总额为人民币 30,943,763 元。本行目前无递延薪酬、留存薪酬的显性调整和隐性调整。The remuneration policy of UOB China aims to provide competitive 
remuneration  package  and  ensure  the  bank  is  able  to  appropriately 
attract, retain and motivate high quality talents who not only fit the 
Bank's culture and share the same values but also meet the competencies 
the positions require. Meanwhile, the remuneration policy outlines how 
our remuneration entitlement links to the Bank's performance, long-term 
beneﬁts and risk management. This remuneration policy applies to all of 
the full-time employees with the Bank.According to the Bank's remuneration policy, the employee's salary is 
mainly linked to the individual performance, the Group's and function's 
performance.  The  performance  target  setting  clearly  shows  the 
requirements and expectations of the Bank for risk management and long-
term and short-term performance of the function and the individual. 
In addition, the compensation review of the employees who are taking 
compliance  and  risk  management's  roles  is  independent  with  the 
performance of the business lines they supervise.The  Bank's  variable  pay  includes  performance  bonus  and  restricted 
shares, which links the staff variable pay to the Bank's performance and 
current and future risks. In line with the Supervisory Guidelines on Sound 
Compensation in Commercial Banks issued by China Banking and Insurance 
Regulatory Commission, senior management and employees whose roles 
have material impacts on the Bank's risk exposure would have a portion of 
their variable pay deferred. Under the Bank's latest deferral framework, the 
50 per cent deferral rate will be applied to the variable pay for key senior 
managements whereas for other senior managements and employees 
whose roles have material impacts on the Bank's risk exposure, the 40 per 
cent deferral rate will be applied to the variable pay. This deferral will be 
in the form of deferred shares or deferred cash (where applicable).To maintain sound corporate governance practices and an effective 
remuneration management, UOB China has established a Nominating and 
Remuneration Committee (NRC), which consists of four Board Directors. 
The chairman of NRC is an independent director. During the reporting 
period, the committee held one meeting in total.6061公司治理
Corporate Governance
内部控制和内部审计情况
Internal Control and Internal Audit内部控制大华银行中国依据中国的政策法规和监管要求并结合大华银行集团
的具体实践，逐步建立、完善适应银行业务发展的内部控制体系和
制度，并确保其始终具备前瞻性和可实践性。我行董事会通过定期召开会议及相关内部委员会讨论，审阅各项风
险管理和分析报告、经营情况与预算执行情况报告和内部审计报告。
同时，结合同业经验交流等多种形式，全面评估银行内部控制体系。我行现行的内部控制体系和制度在改善内部控制环境方面体现了较
好的完整性、合理性和有效性，包括但不限于增强风险识别、监测
和评估能力、提高风险控制措施、完善信息交流与反馈机制、强化
监督评价与纠正机制。该内控体系和制度能够对国家法律法规和银
行规章制度的贯彻执行提供合理保证。Internal Control内部审计Internal AuditUOB China has a well-established internal control system that adheres 
strictly to local regulators' requirements and the Group's policies and 
guidelines. This provides a robust framework and systems that enable 
the Bank to set strategic and practical objectives to support its business 
development.The Board assesses the Bank's internal control framework and systems 
through the review of risk management reports and analysis, operational 
and budget reports, internal audit reports tabled at regular meetings, 
discussions at various internal committees and from the exchange of 
insights with industry peers.The integrity and effectiveness of the Bank's internal control system 
is  a  result  of  the  continuous  improvement  on  the  internal  control 
environment,  including,  but  not  limited  to,  strengthening  risk 
identification/assessment, monitoring processes and risk mitigation 
techniques; and constantly reviewing communication/feedback as well 
as evaluation/correction mechanisms. The internal control framework 
and systems are able to provide a reasonable level of assurance on the 
implementation of legal statutes and regulations.我行设立了独立的审计监督机构——内部审计部。在职能层面，内
部审计部直接向董事会下设的审计委员会和大华银行集团审计部报
告工作；在行政层面，内部审计部向我行行长兼首席执行官汇报工作。Internal Audit is an independent function that reports functionally to the 
Audit Committee (AC) and Group Audit, while administratively reports to 
the President and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer (CEO) of UOB China.内部审计部的主要职责为通过提供独立及客观的内部审计服务和其
他增值服务，协助董事会和管理层履行其法律和管理职责，旨在促
进我行运营活动中内部控制和风险管理的合理性和有效性。内部审
计部依据其系统的、严格的方法论，评估我行内部财务控制、运营
和合规控制的充分性和有效性，同时改善我行风险管理、控制与治
理流程的有效性，从而帮助我行实现其经营和管理目标。在集团审
计部引领下，2021 年内部审计部持续利用增强的风险评估方法监督
银行内控风险管理状况，采用数据分析及自动化等科技措施，帮助
提高审计效率和效果。内部审计部还积极与各业务和支持部门进行
合作，促进相互的了解、增进对新业务产品和流程变化的理解、以
提供更高质量的审计评估，同时尽力为业务和支持部门提供完善流
程或自动化的建议和方案。内部审计部遵照中国银行保险监督管理委员会颁布的《关于金融机
构内部审计的监管要求》，以及国际内部审计师协会制定的《准则
与指引》履行职责。每年度，内部审计部依据“风险导向”的审计方
法制定审计计划和审计频率，并根据对被审计对象的固有风险、内
控有效性的评估结果、管理层关注和监管热点确定审计项目的优先
次序以及审计范围 , 审计内容覆盖总行和分支机构的业务发展和运营
情况以及信息系统基础架构和应用程序的建设及运用情况等。该审
计计划每年经过审计委员会审批后执行。内部审计部根据经审计委员会批准的内部审计计划开展审计，同时
按照监管部门、审计委员会、大华银行中国行长兼首席执行官或高
级管理层的要求开展专项审计或检查，向审计委员会、行长兼首席
执行官、相关管理层或董事会 ( 如适用 ) 汇报最终审计结果，并对重
大审计发现提请关注。此外，内部审计部负责监督管理层针对内部
审计、外部审计以及监管机构所提出的任何需整改事项所采取的后
续行动的实施情况，对整改结果予以独立评价 , 并按季度向审计委员
会和监管部门上报跟踪结果。The primary role of Internal Audit is to assist the Board and management 
to  discharge  their  legal  and  executive  obligations  by  providing 
independent, objective assurance and value-added services to improve 
the Bank's operations. It helps the Bank to accomplish its objectives by 
having a systematic and disciplined approach to provide an independent 
assessment of the adequacy and effectiveness of the Bank's internal 
ﬁnancial controls, operational and compliance controls, and to improve 
the effectiveness of risk management, control and governance processes. 
During  2021,  as  led  by  Group  Audit,  Internal  Audit  continued  its 
implementation on Enhanced Risk Assessment in its monitoring on the 
Bank's internal risk & control management process, applied technology-
enabled techniques such as data analytics and automation tools, for 
improved  effectiveness  and  efficiency  in  audit  assessment.  Internal 
Audit also proactively collaborated with various business and support 
functions for better mutual understanding, deepened its appreciation of 
new business products and process changes to support & improve audit 
evaluation, and strived to recommend process enhancement and/or 
automation solutions to business and support functions.Internal Audit performs its function according to the Internal Audit 
Guidelines for Financial Institutions as governed by the China Banking 
and Insurance Regulatory Commission and Standards for the Professional 
Practice of Internal Auditing set by the Institute of Internal Auditors. 
Internal Audit adopts a risk-based prioritisation approach to develop 
its strategic audit plan to determine audit frequency. This approach 
also adopts a comprehensive assessment of inherent risks, controls, 
management concerns and regulatory hotspots. The audit scope covers 
all businesses, operations as well as the infrastructure and applications 
of systems across UOB China's headquarters and branches. The strategic 
audit plan is annually reviewed and approved by the AC prior to its 
implementation.Internal Audit conducts audits in accordance with the internal audit 
plan approved by the AC, and carries out investigations or reviews that 
may be ad hoc requested by the regulator, the AC, the CEO or senior 
management. All internal audit reports are provided to the AC, the CEO, 
relevant management and/or the Board (where required) with signiﬁcant 
issues highlighted. Internal Audit is responsible for closely monitoring and 
assessing the follow-up actions taken by the management on the issues 
raised by Internal Audit, external audit and regulators, with reporting to 
the AC and the regulator on quarterly basis.6263风险管理
Risk Management风险管理是业务战略中不可或缺的构成要素。我行的风险管理方法
着重于确保连续的财务稳健性和对我行股东权益和相关方利益的保
护，同时在快速变化的环境中敏捷地把握创造价值的商机。我们致
力于保持高标准的公司治理、健全的风险管理原则和业务实践，以
实现可持续的长期增长。我们不断努力实现最佳风险管理实践，以
支持我们战略目标的实现。Managing risk is an integral part of our business strategy. Our risk management 
approach focuses on ensuring continued ﬁnancial soundness and safeguarding 
the interests of our stakeholders, while remaining nimble to seize value-
creating business opportunities in a fast-changing environment. We are 
committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance, sound risk 
management principles and business practices to achieve sustainable long-
term growth. We continuously strive towards best risk management practices 
to support our strategic objectives.2021 管理重点2021 HIGHLIGHTS2021 年，我们继续加强环境、社会及治理（ESG）风险和气候风险
的管理实践。按照集团的做法和时间表，行内建立了本地的环境风
险偏好，采纳了赤道原则“Equator Principles”，并对相关高风险行
业进一步强化管控。我们还致力于或参加集团领导的主动施为，积
极准备、提升日常业务中对气候风险管理的能力和良好实践。我行已经成功完成了于 2021 年底停止报价的非美元伦敦银行间同
业拆借利率 (LIBOR) 的合约转换。跟随我行新加坡母行基准利率转
换项目的安排，我行已经为满足各监管部门设定的基准转换时间表
做好准备。我行的系统和流程优化已经基本上完成，同时预计由于
市场在继续发展可能带来额外的变化。我行基于不同的情景对基准
利率转换导致的外部和内部的财务影响进行评估，并继续定期监测
相应的风险暴露。借助于母行对“交易账簿根本性审查 - 新标准法”（FRTB-SA）的研究，
我行实施了 FRTB-SA 的系统建设，能够满足巴塞尔委员会于 2019
年 1 月发布的《市场风险最低资本要求》，并具备以本位币来计量
和报告 FRTB-SA 结果的能力。这使我行在监管要求 FRTB 合规的时
间表之前能够开展内部试运行和结果分析，并结合监管要求不断进
行调整，为将来开始采用 FRTB 计量和监管市场风险资本做好充分
的准备。我行于 2021 年建立了第三方非外包政策和指引，以规范和系统地
管理第三方供应商关系。In 2021, we further strengthened our environmental, social and governance 
(ESG) risk and climate risk management practices. In line with Group, we 
rolled out environmental risk appetite, adopted the Equator Principles, 
and tightened our policy stance on selected high-risk sectors. We remain 
actively involved in various relevant Group initiatives as relevant to us to 
collectively uplift climate risk management capabilities/practices in the day 
to day business operation.Successfully migrated our non-US Dollar (USD) London Inter-bank Offered 
Rate (LIBOR) contracts whose benchmark will cease after 31 December 
2021, we are ready and on track versus various regulators' timelines follow 
UOB group's Inter-Bank Offered Rate (IBOR) transition project timeline. Our 
system and process enhancements are largely complete with incremental 
changes expected as the market continues to evolve. We evaluated both 
external and internal ﬁnancial impact of the transition based on different 
scenarios and continue to monitor our exposure regularly.Implemented the system construction of Fundamental Review of Trading 
Book Standardised Approach (FRTB-SA) based on parent bank's research, 
which met the requirements of the Basel January 2019 Minimum Capital 
Requirements for Market Risk and added capability to report the FRTB-
SA results in local currencies to facilitate local reporting in the future. 
This allows the Bank to do trial run results and analysis internally 
ahead of the FRTB regulatory compliance timeline and well prepare for 
the incorporation of local jurisdictions' regulatory requirements with 
ongoing ﬁne-tuning.In  2021  we  published  the  Third  Party  Non-Outsourcing  Policy  and 
Guidelines  to  provide  a  standardised  and  systematic  approach  in 
managing third-party relationships.保持健全的风险文化MAINTAINING A SOUND RISK CULTURE强健的风险文化对银行业务的长期可持续发展至关重要。具体而言，
风险文化是指与风险意识、风险承担和风险管理相关的准则、态度
和行为，以及影响风险决策的控制措施。大华银行风险文化深深植
根于我行的价值观。强健的风险文化确保我们的决策和行动是在深
思熟虑之后做出的，一言一行都以客户为中心，并且确保我们不仅
着眼于眼前的短期收益。A strong risk culture is vital to the long-term sustainability of the Bank's 
business franchise. Speciﬁcally, risk culture refers to the norms, attitudes 
and behaviours related to risk awareness, risk-taking and risk management, 
and controls that shape decisions on risks1. At UOB, our risk culture is 
based on our values. A strong risk culture ensures that our decisions and 
actions are considered and focused on our stakeholders, and that we are 
not distracted by short-term gains.1  Guidelines, Corporate Governance Principles for Banks, Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, July 2015.64大华银行的风险文化理念UOB's Risk Culture Statement在大华银行为客户和其他利益相关方创造长期价值的过程中，风险
管理不可或缺。我们的风险文化基于以下四项原则：健全的风险治
理，确保风控有法可依；平衡的风控原则，确保业务稳中求进；明
确的职责分工，确保各方各司其责；有效的激励机制，确保管控始
终如一。每一项原则都是基于大华银行特有的价值观。通过在整个
业务分支中贯彻统一的风险文化，我们坚守对金融安全和稳定的承
诺；坚持为股东呈现公平结果和恰如其分的支持；坚持可持续和审
慎的经营方式；在诚信、商业道德和自律的基础上取得业绩成果。Managing risk is integral to how UOB creates long-term value for our 
customers and other stakeholders. Our risk culture is built on four principles: 
enforcing robust risk governance; balancing growth with stability; ensuring 
accountability for all our risk-based decisions and actions; and encouraging 
awareness, engagement and consistent behaviour in every employee. Each 
of these principles is based on our distinctive set of values that guides every 
action we take. In entrenching our risk culture further across our franchise, we 
uphold our commitment to ﬁnancial safety and soundness; fair outcomes and 
appropriate support for our stakeholders; sustainable and prudent approach 
to business and performance based on integrity, ethics and discipline.Safeguarding our reputation in creating long-term value for our stakeholders保障银行声誉，创造长期价值风险文化影响
Our Risk CultureImpact金融安全和稳健Financial safety
and soundness公平结果和适当支持appropriate support forFair outcomes and
all stakeholders可持续和审慎的经营方式Sustainable and prudentapproach to business经营中保持健全的风险文化Maintaining a sound risk culture across our franchise风险文化原则
Our Risk CulturePrinciples风险文化要素
Our Risk CultureComponents健全的风险治理，
确保风控有法可依GOVERNANCE
Enforce robustgovernance of risk平衡的风控原则，
确保业务稳中求进BALANCEBalance growth with
stability in taking risk·全面风险管理框架、
  政策和流程 
·明确的风险偏好 
·未雨绸缪的监督机制
·独立的监控职能·Comprehensive risk  
 
  management framework, 
  policies and processes
·Well-defined risk appetite
·Pre-emptive supervision
·Independent controlfunctions·公开沟通与协作
·定期审查风险并
  持续改进·Open communication and 
  collaboration
·Regular risk reviews and  
  continual improvements明确的职责分工，
确保各方各司其责ACCOUNTABILITYEnsure accountabilityfor risk·根据三道防线，设置明确的职责分工和上报流程·风险收益平衡的薪酬激励机制·已确立的后果管理
·个人责任
·Clear ownership andescalation through the Three 
Lines Model·Balanced risk-rewardremuneration·Established consequences
·Individual’s accountability以诚信、道德和纪律为本的业绩表现Performance based on
integrity, ethics anddiscipline有效的激励机制，
确保管控始终如一CONSISTENCYEncourage consistent
risk-focused behaviour·上级表率
·领导监督和责任
·明确表述原则和预期结果
·经常定期进行分享 
·持续培训·Tone from above
·Leadership oversight andresponsibility·Clear articulation ofprinciples and desired 
outcomes·Frequent and regular sharing 
·Ongoing trainingDemonstrating our unique set of values through consistent behaviour行为一致，展示我们特有的价值观价值观Our Values诚信Honourable进取Enterprising齐心
United担当Committed65风险管理
Risk Management我们的风险管理策略旨在融入我们的风险文化，以促进持续有效地
发现、管理和缓释风险，以应对业务活动和外部因素引致的风险，
并且高效地使用资本以控制风险。高级管理委员会在经董事会及其
委员会批准的范围内管理风险。 我们制定了由政策、方法、工具和
流程组成的管理框架，帮助我们识别、计量、监控和管理银行面临
的重大风险。这使我们能够集中精力于银行业的基本理念，并为所
有利益相关方创造长期价值。风险治理我行的风险治理框架、政策和偏好为银行风险管理活动提供了原则
和指引。它们有助于资本管理、战略规划和预算编制以及绩效管理
的关键决策，以确保风险这一维度得到适当和充分考虑。风险报告
定期提交给管理层和董事会，以便他们了解银行的风险状况。大华银行中国采纳了巴塞尔框架要求并遵守中国银行及保险业监督
管理委员会 (CBIRC) 对商业银行的资本管理措施。我们采用谨慎和具
有前瞻性的方法在不断演化的监管环境中寻求发展，强调在健全风
险管理原则指导下取得可持续业务回报。Our risk management strategy is targeted at embedding our risk culture so 
as to facilitate ongoing effective discovery, management and mitigation 
of risks arising from our business activities and external factors, and to use 
capital efﬁciently to address these risks. Risks are managed within levels 
established by the senior management committees and approved by the 
Board and its committees. We have put in place a set of frameworks, 
policies, methodologies, tools and processes that will help us to identify, 
to measure, to monitor and to manage material risks faced by the Bank. 
These enables us to focus on the fundamentals of banking and to create 
long-term value for all our stakeholders.RISK GOVERNANCEOur risk frameworks, policies and appetite provide the principles and 
guidance for the Bank's risk management activities. They guide our key 
decisions for capital management, strategic planning and budgeting, and 
performance management to ensure that the risk dimension is appropriately 
and  adequately  considered.  Risk  reports  are  regularly  submitted  to 
management and the Board to keep them apprised of the Bank's risk proﬁle.我行已采用内部资本充足评估程序 (ICAAP)，持续评估支持我们业务
所需的资本金额。 我们定期审阅内部资本充足评估程序，以确保在
考虑所有重大风险的情况下银行保持良好资本规模。我行通过开展
压力测试确定在压力条件下的资本充足率。UOB  China  has  adopted  the  Basel  Framework  and  observes  capital 
management measures on commercial banks by China Banking and Insurance 
Regulatory Commission (CBIRC). We take a prudent and proactive approach 
in navigating the evolving regulatory landscape, with emphasis on sound risk 
management principles in delivering sustainable returns.我行的风险管理责任始于董事会对银行治理结构进行的监督，旨在
确保银行的业务活动：•  以安全有效的方式开展并符合高标准及健全的商业惯例；
•  符合我行整体业务战略和风险偏好；以及
•  受制于充分的风险管理和内部控制。我行执行委员会 (EXCO) 和董事会风险管理委员会 (BRMC) 协助董事
会进行风险监督。董事会也对银行的整体风险偏好和维持的风险资
本水平进行审阅。在充分考虑风险和回报因素的前提下，由行长兼首席执行官（CEO）
建立的各高级管理委员会负责协助进行业务决策。涉及的主要高级
管理委员会包括管理委员会 (MC)，资产负债委员会 (ALCO)，信贷委
员会 (ICCC)，操作风险管理委员会 (ORMC)，消费者权益保护委员会
(CRPC) ，风险与资本委员会 (RCC)，和信息科技委员会 (ITC)。这些委
员会还协助董事会就具体风险领域的管理。We have adopted Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) 
to assess on an ongoing basis the amount of capital necessary to support 
our activities. We review the ICAAP periodically to ensure that the Bank 
remains well-capitalised taking into account all material risks. Stress testing is 
conducted to determine capital adequacy under stressed conditions.UOB China's responsibility for risk management starts with Board oversight of 
Bank's governance structure, which ensure that the Bank's business activities are:
•  conducted in a safe and sound manner and in line with the higheststandards of professionalism;•  consistent with the Bank's overall business strategy and risk appetite;and•  subjected to adequate risk management and internal controls.Our Board is assisted by the Executive Committee (EXCO) and Board Risk 
Management Committee (BRMC) in the oversight of risks. The Board also reviews 
the overall risk appetite and level of risk capital to maintain for the Bank.Our Chief Executive Officer (CEO) has established senior management 
committees to assist in making business decisions with due consideration 
for risks and returns. The main senior management committees involved in 
this are the Management Committee (MC), Asset and Liability Committee 
(ALCO), In-Country Credit Committee (ICCC), Operational Risk Management 
Committee (ORMC), Consumer Rights Protection Committee (CRPC), Risk and 
Capital Committee (RCC), and Information & Technology Committee (ITC). 
These committees also assist the Board committees in speciﬁc risk areas.高级管理层和高级管理委员会被授权对业务条线和 / 或宽泛的产品
条线授予风险偏好限额。Senior management and the senior management committees are authorised 
to delegate risk appetite limits by business lines and/or broad product lines.风险管理也是银行内每个员工的责任。风险意识和职责通过一个既
定的框架嵌入到我们的企业文化中，确保对整个银行和各种类型的
风险得到有效监控和管理。这是通过如下所示的“三道防线模式”的组织控制结构实现的：Risk management is the responsibility of every employee in the Bank. 
We strive to instill awareness of the risks created by their actions and be 
accountable for the consequences of those actions in our employees.  
We have an established framework to ensure appropriate oversight, 
accountability and management of all risk types encountered in the 
course of our business.Our organisational control structure is based on the Three Lines model as 
follows:风险治理结构
Risk Governance Structure董事会Board of Directors首席执行官CEO会
员
委
属
下
会
事
董s
e
e
t
t
im
m
o
Cd
r
a
o
B会
员
委
理
管
级
高s
e
e
t
t
im
m
o
C
 
t
n
e
m
e
g
a
n
a
Mir
o
n
e
S· 审计委员会
  Audit  Committee· 董事会风险管理委员会Board Risk Management Committee· 提名及薪酬委员会
  Nominating and Remuneration Committee
· 执行委员会
 
Executive Committee
· 关联交易控制委员会Connected Transactions Control CommitteeRisk & Capital CommitteeIn-Country Credit CommitteeAsset & Liability Committee· 风险与资本委员会
 
· 信贷委员会
 
· 资产负债委员会
 
· 管理委员会
  Management Committee
· 消费者权益保护委员会
 
· 操作风险管理委员会
  Operational Risk Management Committee
· 信息科技委员会Consumer Rights Protection CommitteeInformation & Technology Committee业务部门Business Functions支持部门Support Functions风险控制部门Risk Control Functions首席风险官Chief Risk Officer内部审计InternalAudit第一道防线  First line of defence第二道防线 Second line of defence第三道防线 Third line of defence6667风险管理
Risk Management第一道防线 — 风险所有者：各业务及业务支持部门应对由于自身业
务活动产生的风险承担并负首要责任，实施并执行有效的风险管理
控制措施。这包括充分的管理及监督控制以确保符合风险管理制度、
风险偏好、风险限额以及控制要求，同时对控制失效、流程缺陷及
非预期的突发事件引起关注并作相应的报告。第二道防线 — 风险监督：风险控制监督部门（即风险管理部及合规
部）和首席风险官为第二道防线，协助银行实现平衡增长和稳定的
发展策略，制定风险框架、政策、风险偏好和限额，而业务部门在
此范围内进行业务操作。风险控制监督部门也负责对银行整体风险
概况进行独立的审查及监控，并向相关的高级管理委员会报告重大
隐患及风险问题。风险控制监督部门与业务部门保持独立，以确保必要的查验和制约
机制落实到位。第三道防线 — 独立审计：我行的内部审计对第一道防线和第二道防
线在内的所有方面执行风险导向型审计，并就风险管理及内部控制
体系的充分性和有效性向行长兼首席执行官、审计委员会（AC）及
董事会独立提供保障，并年度向审计委员会和董事会汇报总体意见
和建议。风险偏好大华银行中国已经建立了风险偏好框架，确定银行力求实现业务目
标过程中能够并且愿意承担的风险总量。建立风险偏好框架的目的
不是为了限制承担风险，而是确保银行的风险状况保持在明确界定
和可容忍的范围内。 该框架是根据以下主要标准制定的：•  与相应利益相关方的相关性，具有适当的细分级别；
•  实用、一致和易于沟通和实施的指标；
•  与我行业务战略的关键要素保持一致；
•  可分析证明和可衡量的指标。First line – The Risk Owner: The business and business support functions 
own and have primary responsibility for implementing and executing 
effective controls to manage the risks arising from their activities. This 
includes  establishing  adequate  managerial  and  supervisory  controls 
to ensure compliance with approved risk policies, appetite, limits and 
controls and to highlight control breakdowns, inadequacy of processes 
and unexpected risk events.Second line – Risk Oversight: The risk and control oversight functions (i.e. 
Risk Management and Compliance Function), and the Chief Risk Ofﬁcer 
(CRO) as the Second line, support the Bank's strategy of balancing growth 
with stability by establishing risk frameworks, policies, appetite and 
limits within which the business functions must operate. They are also 
responsible for the independent review and monitoring of the Bank's risk 
proﬁle and for highlighting any signiﬁcant vulnerabilities and risk issues to 
the respective senior management committees.The independence of risk and control oversight functions from business 
functions ensures the necessary checks and balances are in place.Third line – Independent Audit: The Bank's internal auditors conduct 
risk-based audits covering all aspects of the First and Second lines to 
provide independent assurance to the CEO, Audit Committee (AC) and 
the Board, on the adequacy and effectiveness of our system of risk 
management and internal controls. The internal auditor's overall opinion 
of the internal controls and risk management system is provided to the 
AC and the Board annually.RISK APPETITEUOB China has established a risk appetite framework to define the 
amount of risk we are able and willing to take in pursuit of our business 
objectives. It ensures that the Bank's risk profile remains within well-
deﬁned and tolerable boundaries. The framework was formulated based 
on the following key criteria:•  alignment to the Bank's key business strategy; 
•  relevance  to  respective  stakeholders,  with  appropriate  levels  ofgranularity;•  practical,  consistent  and  easy-to-understand  metrics  forcommunication and implementation; and•  analytically-substantiated and measurable metrics.风险偏好定义了关键领域的适当阈值和限额，包括但不限于信贷风
险、国别风险、市场风险、流动性风险、操作风险、信息科技风险
和声誉风险。我们承受风险的方式是聚焦于被充分了解且具有完备
风险管理能力的各项业务。通过这种方法，我们的目标是尽量控制
盈余波动和集中度风险，确保银行良好的信用评级、充足的资本和
稳定的资金来源得到保持。这使我们能够在不断变化的经济条件和
周期中，成为我们客户的坚定的合作伙伴。我行的风险偏好框架和风险偏好每年定期更新并由董事会批准通过。
银行管理层负责定期将风险概况和风险偏好限额的监测情况上报董
事会及董事会风险管理委员会知悉。重大风险大华银行中国的业务战略、产品、客户组合和经营环境使我们面临
金融和非金融风险。识别和监控重大风险是本行风险管理方法的组
成部分。它促使我们能够对整个银行进行适当的评估并积极采取缓
释措施降低这些风险。下表列举了可能影响银行战略目标实现的重
大风险，各重大风险的具体内容请参考后续章节：The risk appetite defines suitable thresholds and limits across key areas of 
credit risk, country risk, market risk, liquidity risk, operational risk, technology 
risk and reputational risk. Our risk-taking approach is focused on businesses 
which we understand and whose risk we are well-equipped to manage. This 
approach helps us to minimise earnings volatility and concentration risk, and 
ensures that our high credit ratings, strong capital and stable funding base 
remain intact. This way, we will remain a steadfast partner of our customers 
through changing economic conditions and cycles.UOB China's risk appetite framework and risk appetite are reviewed and 
approved annually by the Board. Management monitors and reports the 
risk proﬁles and compliance with the risk appetite to the Board and BRMC 
on a regular basis.MATERIAL RISKSUOB China's business strategies, products, customer proﬁles and operating 
environment expose us to a number of ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial risks. 
Identifying and monitoring key risks are integral to the Bank's approach to 
risk management. It enables us to make proper assessment and to mitigate 
these risks proactively across the Bank. The table below lists the key risks 
which could impact the achievement of the Bank's strategic objectives. 
Details of these key risks can be found in the following pages.重大风险
Material Risk定义
Deﬁnition风险管控
How risk is managed信贷风险
Credit Risk信贷风险是由于借款人或交易对手无法履行到期的金融或
偿付义务而引致的损失风险。本行制定了信贷风险管理框架、政策、风险模型和风险限
额进行风险管控。The  risk  of  loss  arising  from  failure  by  a  borrower  or 
counterparty to meet its ﬁnancial obligations when they are 
due.Through the Bank's credit risk management framework, policies, 
probability of default/loss given default/exposure at default/
portfolio models and limits.市场风险
Market Risk市场风险指由于相关资产的市场价格变动（例如利率，汇
率，股票价格，商品价格和信贷息差的变化）给银行造成
损失的风险。也包括银行账户中的利率风险，这是由于利
率环境变化而导致的潜在资本损失或收益减少。本行制定了市场风险管理框架、政策、风险价值模型和风
险限额进行风险管控。制定了资产负债风险管理框架、银
行账户利率风险管理政策和风险限额进行银行账户利率风
险管控。The risk of loss from movements in the market rates or prices 
(such as changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, 
equity prices, commodity prices and credit spreads) of the 
underlying asset. It includes interest rate risk in the banking 
book which is the potential loss of capital or reduction in 
earnings due to changes in interest rates environment.Through  the  Bank's  market  risk  management  framework, 
policies, Value-at-Risk (VaR) models and limits. Interest risk in 
the banking book is managed through the Bank's balance sheet 
risk management framework and interest rate risk in the banking 
book management policies and limits.流动性风险
Liquidity Risk流动性风险是指银行无法获得充足资金或无法以合理成本
获得充足资金以应对资产增长或到期债务支付的风险。本行制定了资产负债风险管理框架进行风险管控，包含各
项政策和风险限额。The  risk  that  arises  from  the  Bank's  inability  to  meet  its 
obligations or fund increases in assets as they fall due.Through the Bank's balance sheet risk management framework, 
liquidity risk management policies, ratios and limits.6869风险管理
Risk Management重大风险
Material Risk定义
Deﬁnition风险管控
How risk is managed重大风险
Material Risk定义
Deﬁnition风险管控
How risk is managed行为风险
Conduct Risk行为风险是由于员工行为或行动不当而导致对客户产生不
公平的结果、对市场诚信产生的负面影响以及其他损害集
团声誉的问题。这也包含监督主管未合理管理其员工行为
问题或未及时上报行为失当的失职情况。通过利用操作风险管理、内部欺诈管理、举报、员工纪律、
个人问责、行为守则、薪酬、公平交易和反洗钱方面的框架、
政策和程序多种方法进行管控。The  risk  of  improper  employee  behaviour  or  action  that 
results in unfair stakeholder outcomes, negative impact on 
market integrity and other issues that damage the reputation 
of the Bank.Through a multi-faceted approach leveraging on the frameworks, 
policies and procedures in operational risk management, internal 
fraud  management,  whistle-blowing,  employee  discipline, 
individual accountability, code of conduct, remuneration, fair 
dealing, and anti-money laundering.操作风险
Operational 
Risk操作风险是指由不完善或有问题的内部程序、员工和信息
科技系统，以及外部事件所造成损失的风险。操作风险涵
盖银行营运风险、欺诈风险、法律风险、监管合规风险、
声誉风险、外包和第三方非外包风险，与信息科技风险， 
但不包括战略风险和业务风险。本行制定了操作风险管理框架，政策、管理工具进行操作
风险管控，包括关键风险识别和控制自我评估、关键操作
风险指标、操作风险事件报告、管理风险意识、第三方非
外包风险评估问卷和情景分析。The risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal 
processes, people and systems or from external events. Such 
loss may be in the form of financial loss or other damage, 
for example, loss of reputation and public confidence that 
will impact the our creditability and/or ability to transact, to 
maintain liquidity and/or to obtain new business. This includes 
banking operations risk, fraud risk, legal risk, outsourcing risk 
third party non-outsourcing risk, regulatory compliance risk, 
reputational risk and technology risk but excludes strategic 
and business risks.Through the respective risk management frameworks, policies, 
and operational risk management programmes including Key Risk 
and Control Self-Assessments, Key Operational Risk Indicators, 
Incident Reporting, Management Risk Awareness , Outsourcing 
Assessment,  Third  Party  Non-Outsourcing  Risk  Assessment 
Questionnaire and Scenario Analysis.策略和
业务风险
Strategic and 
Business Risk策略风险指由于不利的战略决策，决策执行不当或对行业，
经济或科技变化缺乏响应而对收益，资本或声誉造成的当
前或预期的负面影响。
业务风险指由于业务参数的变化，例如业务量，利润和成
本的变化而对收益或资本产生不利影响。根据整体风险治理框架进行策略风险管控，并由高级管理
层委员会负责监督。Strategic risk refers to the current or prospective negative 
impact on earnings, capital or reputation arising from adverse 
strategic decisions, improper implementation of decisions or a 
lack of responsiveness to industry, economic or technological 
changes.
Business risk refers to the adverse impact on  earnings or 
capital arising from changes in business parameters such as 
volumes, margins and costs.Through overall risk governance framework and oversight by 
senior management committees.模型风险指由于以下原因所引起的风险：
•  使用无法准确评估市场价格的模型，或不是市场主流的模型（如定价模型）；•  无法准确地估计未来损失的可能性或大小（如风险度量模型）。This is the risk arising from:
•  the use of inappropriate model which cannot accurately 
evaluate market prices, or which is not a mainstream model 
in the market (such as pricing models); or•  inaccurately estimating the probability or magnitude of 
future losses (such as risk measurement models) and the use 
of those estimates.模型风险
Model Risk70通过各项重大风险类型下的定量模型管理要求进行管理。Managed under the respective material risk types for which 
there is a quantitative model.环境、社会及
治理风险
Environmental, 
Social and 
Governance 
Risk环境、社会及治理风险是指由声誉损失或 ESG 问题（包
括气候改变）引致的信贷损失或非财务风险。ESG 风险不
仅可源于对客户的金融服务，也可以由银行自身的运营行
为引起。The  risk  of  credit  loss  or  non-financial  risks,  such  as 
reputational damage, arising from ESG issues, including climate 
change. While a key component of ESG risk arises indirectly 
from the ﬁnancial services we provide to our customers, it can 
also result directly from our own operations.本行制定了相关管理框架、政策和指引（包括适用的负责
任融资政策和环境风险管理框架） 进行各项 ESG 风险的管
控。The different aspects of ESG risk are managed through the 
relevant frameworks, policies and guidelines in place, including 
our Environment Risk Management Framework and Responsible 
Financing Policy.信贷风险CREDIT RISK信贷风险是由于借款人或交易对手无法履行到期的金融或偿付义务
而引致的损失风险。信贷风险是我行开展核心业务所面临的最大单
一风险，通常源自对于零售、公司或者机构借款人的贷款业务或其
他借贷相关承诺。资金和资本市场操作及投资业务同样也会使银行
面临交易对手和发行人的信用风险。我行采用全面的信贷风险评估方法并确保信贷风险管理成为企业风
险管理的有机组成部分，完整的信贷风险管理框架下清晰地定义了
信贷风险识别、计量和管理相关的政策和流程。我行持续监测运营
环境，以识别新出现的风险，并制定适当的缓解措施。信贷风险治理和组织风险与资本委员会以及信贷委员会协助行长兼首席执行官和董事会
层级委员会管理银行的整体信贷风险敞口，并商讨所有信贷相关的
问题。其中，信贷委员会还负责在董事会设定的风险偏好和执行委
员会授权的审批限额内批准对借款人和 / 或交易对手的信贷额度和
敞口。风险与资本委员经会商批准信贷风险管理政策，并且承担审
阅和评估银行信贷组合和信贷风险状况的职责。风险管理部下属信贷风险管理部负责制订全行性的信贷政策和指引，
并专注于在审慎、一致和有效的信贷风险管理框架下促进业务发展。
该部门负责信贷风险相关的报告、分析和管理，向银行相关的管理
层委员会提交涵盖各业务部门的详实的信贷风险报告（涉及信贷组
合行业、产品和国别风险等）。Credit risk is the risk of loss arising from any failure by a borrower or 
counterparty to meet its ﬁnancial obligations when they are due. It is the 
single largest risk that we face in our core business as a commercial bank, 
arising primarily from loans and other lending-related commitments to 
retail, corporate and institutional borrowers. Treasury and capital market 
operations and investments also expose the Bank to counterparty and 
issuer credit risks.We adopt a holistic approach towards assessing credit risk and ensure 
that managing credit risk is part of an integrated approach to enterprise 
risk management. Integral to the management of credit risk is a framework 
that clearly deﬁnes policies and processes relating to the identiﬁcation, 
measurement and management of credit risk. We continually monitor 
the operating environment to identify emerging risks and to formulate 
appropriate mitigating actions.Credit Risk Governance and OrganisationThe RCC and ICCC support the CEO and board level committees in 
managing the Bank's overall credit risk exposures and serves as executive 
forum to discuss on all credit-related matters. Particularly, ICCC holds the 
responsibility of approving credit facilities and exposures to borrowers 
and/or counterparties of the Bank within the Risk Appetite Limit set 
by the Board and the discretionary limits delegated by the EXCO. RCC 
discusses and approves credit risk management policies, reviews and 
assesses the Bank's credit portfolios and credit risk proﬁles.The Credit Risk Management Division under Risk Management Function 
develops bank-wide credit policies and guidelines and facilitates business 
development within a framework that results in prudent, consistent 
and efﬁcient credit risk management. It is responsible for the reporting, 
analysis and management of credit risk to the relevant management 
committees.  The  comprehensive  credit  risk  reports  cover  business 
segments at the overall portfolio level by various dimensions including 
industry, product and country.71风险管理
Risk Management风险政策和程序Credit Risk Policies and Processes信贷集中度风险Credit Concentration Risk我们建立了信贷政策和流程来管理以下关键领域的信贷风险：We have established credit policies and processes to manage credit risk in 
the following key areas:独立的信贷批准为保持信贷审批程序的健全和独立性，我行的信贷业务发起与审批
职能相分离。信贷审批授权根据审批官的经验、资历和工作记录予
以委任，所有审批官接受信贷政策和信贷接纳标准的指导。信贷政
策和信贷接纳标准将周期性进行审阅和必要更新，以确保同银行发
展策略和业务环境的连续性和适用性。内部评级系统我行采用内部评级模型来支持信贷风险评估并按照评级对信贷敞口
进行归类。内部评级的使用贯穿于信贷审批、信贷复审和监测、信
贷压力测试、限额设定、定价和催收等领域。相关信用风险模型在
运用前须通过独立的验证，以确保它们符合需要。为了持续监测评
级模型的可靠性，所有模型须由其拥有部门进行年度审阅，以确保
所选取的风险因素和假设继续与相应的信贷组合保持适用性。交易对手信用风险与贷款业务在其合约期限内风险敞口按名义金额计量不同，交易对
手信用风险敞口随市场变动因素而波动。我行的交易对手信用风险
的计量是将当前盯市价值加上反映潜在风险暴露（PFE）的附加因子
（add-on）。潜在风险暴露因子是对交易存续期内风险暴露上限的
估计，被用于外汇 / 衍生品交易的限额设立及内部风险管理。外汇、衍生品和证券融资交易的风险敞口通过签订国际掉期及衍生
工具协会（ISDA）主协议或中国银行间市场金融衍生产品交易主协
议（NAFMII）得到缓释。此类安排允许在发生违约事件时以净额结
算方式平盘未了结的交易，从而将我行的风险敞口降到最低。我行
还建立了管控对手方错向风险（Wrong Way Risk）的政策，以管理交
易对手方信贷敞口同其违约风险呈现正相关的情形。此外，衍生品交易也可通过中央交易对手方进行清算，并在可能情
况下通过多边净额结算和每日保证金调整进一步减少交易对手方的
信贷敞口。72Credit Approval ProcessCredit origination and approval functions are segregated to maintain 
the independence and integrity of the credit approval process. Credit 
approval authority is delegated to officers based on their experience, 
seniority and track record. All credit approval ofﬁcers are guided by credit 
policies and credit acceptance guidelines which are reviewed periodically 
to ensure their continued relevance to the Bank's business strategy and 
the business environment.Internal Rating SystemThe Bank employs internal rating models to support the assessment of 
credit risk and the assignment of exposures to rating grades or pools. 
Internal ratings are used pervasively by the Bank in the areas of credit 
approval,  credit  review  and  monitoring,  credit  stress-testing,  limits 
setting, pricing and collections. The credit risk models are independently 
validated before they are implemented to ensure they are ﬁt for purpose. 
The robustness of these rating models is monitored on an ongoing basis, 
and all models are subject to annual reviews conducted by model owners 
to ascertain that the chosen risk factors and assumptions continue to 
remain relevant for the respective portfolios.Counterparty Credit RiskUnlike normal lending risk where the notional amount at risk can be 
determined with a high degree of certainty during the contractual period, 
counterparty  credit  risk  exposure  fluctuates  with  market  variables. 
Counterparty credit risk is measured as the sum of current mark-to-market 
value and an appropriate add-on factor for potential future exposure (PFE). 
The PFE factor is an estimate of the maximum credit exposure over the 
remaining life of the foreign exchange (FX) / derivative transaction and is 
used for limit-setting and internal risk management.Exposures arising from FX, derivatives and securities ﬁnancing transactions 
are typically mitigated through agreements such as the International 
Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA) Master Agreements, and the 
National Association of Financial Market Institutional Investors (NAFMII) 
Agreement. Such agreements help to minimise credit exposure by allowing 
us to offset what we owe to counterparty against what is due from that 
counterparty in the event of a default. We have also established policies 
and processes to manage wrong-way risk, i.e. where the counterparty 
credit exposure is positively correlated with its default risk.In  addition,  derivative  transactions  are  cleared  through  Central 
Counterparties, where possible, to reduce counterparty credit exposure 
further through multilateral netting and the daily margining process.信贷集中度风险可能源于单笔的大额信贷敞口或互相关联的多笔敞
口。该类风险通过设定不同种类的限额进行管理，包括集团、特定
组合、借款人、行业和国别等，通常限定为银行资本额的一定百分比。
我行通过稳健的信贷接纳标准、授信结构和监测流程管理信贷风险
敞口。我行积极地降低信贷资产组合可能的集中度风险，目前信贷
资产投放主要集中在国内。信贷压力测试信贷压力测试是信贷资产组合管理的一个重要组成部分。我行组织
实施信贷压力测试，用以评估是否有足够资本应对压力情景下导致
的信贷损失，以及压力情景对盈利和资产负债表质量的影响。压力
测试也帮助识别业务组合中的薄弱环节，以便制订和采取适当的风
险缓释措施。银行订立的压力测试情景将潜在和可能出现的宏观经济和地缘政治
事件纳入考量，并区分该类事件不同的可能性和严重程度。压力测
试情景通常会同相关业务部门讨论决定并由相应高级管理层委员会
批准通过。信贷风险缓释我行的潜在信贷损失可以通过一系列的增信手段如抵押品、衍生的
交易安排、担保和净额结算等起到风险缓释目的。作为一项基本信
贷原则，我行不允许仅凭建立抵押安排即给予客户授信，所有授信
必须基于对借款人信用水平、还款来源和偿付能力的综合考量。尽可能地获取抵押品是作为风险缓释的一种手段，抵押品的价值会
被定期监控。价值评估频度则取决于抵押品的种类、可变现性和价
值波动程度。抵押品多为房地产，同时也可接受现金、有价证券、设备、
存货和应收款项等。抵押品集中度受相关政策和流程监控。抵押品
的市场价值会作一定的扣减，以反映该抵押品的质量、价格波动和
可变现性等基本质素。当向中小型企业提供信贷支持时，通常要求客户的主要股东或董事
提供个人担保以显示并确保其对借款人的承诺和支持。当客户的信
用可靠程度不足以支撑授信时通常会要求公司担保。Credit concentration risk may arise from a single large exposure or from 
multiple exposures that are closely correlated. We manage such risks by 
setting exposure limits on borrowers, obligor groups, portfolios, industries 
and countries, generally expressed as a percentage of the Bank's eligible 
capital base. We manage our credit risk exposures through a robust credit 
underwriting, structuring and monitoring process. While we proactively 
minimise undue concentration of exposure in our portfolio, our credit 
portfolio remains concentrated in China.Credit Stress TestCredit  stress-testing  is  a  core  component  of  our  credit  portfolio 
management process. We conduct stress tests to assess if our capital can 
withstand credit portfolio losses resulting from stress scenarios, and their 
impact on our proﬁtability and balance sheet quality. Stress tests also help 
us to identify the vulnerability of various business units and enable us to 
formulate appropriate mitigating measures.
 
Our  internal  stress  test  scenarios  consider  potential  and  plausible 
macroeconomic and geopolitical events in varying degrees of likelihood 
and severity. These are developed in consultation with relevant business 
units and approved by senior management committees.Credit Risk MitigationOur potential credit losses are mitigated through a variety of instruments 
such as collateral, derivatives, guarantees and netting arrangements. The 
Bank would generally not grant credit facilities solely on the basis of the 
collateral provided. All requests for credit facilities are assessed based on 
the credit standing, source of repayment and debt servicing ability of the 
borrower.The Bank takes collateral whenever possible to mitigate the credit risk 
assumed. The value of the collateral is monitored periodically and the 
frequency of valuation depends on the type, liquidity and volatility of 
the collateral value. The collaterals are mostly in the form of properties. 
Cash, marketable securities, equipment, inventories and receivables may 
also be accepted. We have policies and processes to monitor collateral 
concentration.  Haircuts  that  reflect  the  underlying  nature,  quality, 
volatility and liquidity of the collaterals would be applied to the market 
value of collaterals as appropriate.When extending credit facilities to small- and medium-sized enterprises 
(SMEs),  we  often  take  personal  guarantees  to  secure  the  moral 
commitment from the principal shareholders and directors. Corporate 
guarantees are often obtained when the borrower's creditworthiness is 
not sufﬁcient to justify an extension of credit.73风险管理
Risk Management信贷监控和应对管理Credit Monitoring and Remedial Management银行定期监测和分析信贷敞口、信贷组合表现和可能影响整体信用
水平的新显现的风险。董事会和高级管理层通过各类内部风险报告
获得信贷风险趋势的更新情况。我行还建立了信贷早期预警机制，
由业务部门向高级管理层上报发生信贷质量下降客户的情况，以便
商讨应对策略并采取行动。We  regularly  monitor  credit  exposures,  portfolio  performance  and 
emerging risks that may impact our credit risk proﬁle. The Board and senior 
management are updated on credit trends through internal risk reports. 
An early alert process has also been put in place whereby vulnerable 
accounts are escalated by the business units to senior management for 
discussion on account strategy and remedial actions.逾期账户管理Delinquency Monitoring我行密切监控逾期账户，并以此作为信贷质量的一个重要指示标志。
当客户未能按时还本和 / 或付息时，相应账户即构成逾期。所有逾
期账户包括循环授信的信用额度超限都将由业务部门和风险管理部
门按规定程序进行密切监控和管理。当认为必要时，此类账户的信
贷复审间隔将被缩短。贷款分类、损失准备和不良贷款核销我行依据借款人以正常经营收入归还信贷的能力对信贷资产组合进
行分类，并设立独立的信贷复审职能以强化信贷风险分类和损失准
备计提的合理性。所有对客户的贷款和垫付款项按照银保监会的指引要求被分为“正
常”、“关注”和“不良”贷款，其中不良贷款被进一步分为“次级”、“可
疑”或“损失”类。任何逾期或循环授信项下发生额度超限达到 90 天
以上的账户将被自动归为“不良”类。另外，任何因显现不足并可能
对按目前合约还款产生负面影响的账户可被归为“不良”类。会计处
理上对于信贷损失的定义同监管定义总体上一致。提高不良类账户的分类至“正常”或“关注”时，需以借款人的还款能力、
现金流和财务状况的全面评估作为支持依据。银行应确信一旦被解
除不良分类后，该账户将不会在短期内再次被降级。当借款人财务状况恶化或已无力按原定的计划还款，银行会考虑对
贷款进行重组（通常是做出非商业考量的安排）。重组贷款须被划归为“不良”类，并根据银行基于重组条款对借款人
的财务状况和还款能力的评估结果给予适当的信贷分类评级。We  closely  monitor  the  delinquency  of  borrowing  accounts,  a  key 
indicator of credit quality. An account is considered delinquent when 
payment has not received by the payment  due date. All delinquent 
accounts, including revolving credit facilities with limit excesses, are 
closely monitored and managed through a disciplined process by ofﬁcers 
from business units and risk management function. Where appropriate, 
such accounts are also subject to more frequent credit reviews.Classiﬁcation, Provisioning and Write-OffWe classify our credit portfolios according to the borrower's ability to 
repay the credit facilities from their normal source of income. There is an 
independent credit review process to ensure the appropriateness of loan 
grading and provisioning.All borrowing accounts are categorised into 'Pass', 'Special Mention' or 
'Non-performing'. 'Non-performing' or impaired accounts are further sub-
divided into 'Substandard', 'Doubtful' or 'Loss' in accordance with the 
guidelines of CBIRC. Any account which is delinquent (or in excess of 
the approval limit for a revolving credit facility) for more than 90 days 
will automatically be categorised automatically as 'Non-performing'. 
In addition, any account that exhibits weaknesses which are likely to 
adversely affect repayment on existing terms may be categorised as 'Non-
performing'. The accounting definition of impaired and the regulatory 
deﬁnition of default are generally aligned.Upgrading and de-classiﬁcation of a 'Non-performing' account to 'Pass' or 
'Special Mention' status must be supported by a credit assessment of the 
repayment capability, cash ﬂows and ﬁnancial position of the borrower. 
We must also be satisfied that once the account is de-classified, the 
account is unlikely to be classiﬁed again in the near future.A credit facility is restructured when a bank grants concessions (usually 
non-commercial) to a borrower because of a deterioration in the ﬁnancial 
position of the borrower or the inability of the borrower to meet the 
original repayment schedule.A restructured account is categorised as 'Non-performing' and placed on 
the appropriate classiﬁed grade based on our assessment of the ﬁnancial 
condition of the borrower and the ability of the borrower to repay under 
the restructured terms.贷款损失准备的计提严格按照银保监会指引和银行政策要求并谨慎
考量包括不良账户项下抵押品变现收入在内的不良信贷未来清收处
置价值。当回收的前景被认为较差或是其它可能的还款来源均被追
索受偿后，该账户才被准予核销。Loan loss provision is made in line with the Bank's impairment policy and CBIRC 
guidelines after careful consideration of the future recovery value including 
liquidation of collateral of the non-performing account. A non-performing 
account is written off when the prospect of a recovery is considered poor or 
when all feasible avenues of recovery have been exhausted.特殊资产管理Special Asset Management特殊资产管理（SAM）职能由独立团队对银行的企业和个人住房
贷款的不良资产组合进行重组、重整或清收。对不良账户进行主
动管理的首要目标是尽量使这些账户恢复财务健康并转回相应业
务部门进行管理，或决定退出该业务关系并最大限度地争取不良
贷款的回收。Special Asset Management are in place with independent units that 
respectively manage the restructuring, workout and recovery of Bank's 
corporate and retail mortgage non-performing portfolios. The primary 
objectives are to nurse non-performing accounts back to ﬁnancial health 
whenever possible for transfer back to business unit for management; and 
to maximise recovery of such accounts that the Bank intends to exit.贷款风险分类及不良贷款情况
 Loans by Classiﬁcation贷款分类
Loans by Classiﬁcation正常 Pass关注 Special Mention次级 Substandard可疑 Doubtful损失 Loss合计 Total人民币（百万元）
Outstanding (RMB'm)39,62316825505139,917占比
(%)99.26%0.42%0.06%0.13%0.13%100%（贷款行业分布和区域分布信息请参见我行审计财务报告的相关注释部分）
(For "Loans by Industry Distribution and by Geographical Region", please refer to relevant note of the audited ﬁnancial report.)2021 年底，不良贷款合计人民币 1.258 亿元 , 占贷款总额比例为 0.32%。
拨备覆盖率为 796.3%，贷款拨备率为 2.5%，分别高于 120.0% 及 1.5%
的最低监管要求。As  at  31  December  2021,  total  non-performing  loans  amounted  to 
RMB125.8  million, representing 0.32 per cent of the Bank's total loans 
portfolio. Non-performing loan coverage ratio was 796.3 per cent and 
provision-to-loan ratio was 2.5 per cent, above the regulatory minimum 
requirement of 120.0 per cent and 1.5 per cent respectively.7475风险管理
Risk Management市场风险MARKET RISK市场风险是指由于相关资产的市场汇率或价格（例如利率，汇率，
股票价格，商品价格和信贷利差）的变动给银行造成损失的风险。Market risk refers to the risk of loss from movements in the market 
rates or prices (such as changes in interest rates, FX rates, equity prices, 
commodity prices and credit spreads) of the underlying asset.市场风险由我行资产负债委员会通过每月例会定期审阅市场风险相
关事务，并为市场风险管理提供指引。风险管理部下属的市场风险
管理及监控部门和资产负债风险管理部门负责提交有关市场风险敞
口的独立报告，供董事会风险管理委员会、风险与资本委员会和资
产负债委员会审阅。我行市场风险管理框架包含市场风险政策、程序、控制和适当的风
险管理授权以及市场风险限额。我行采用的估值方法符合市场惯例，
并且估值与风险模型得到独立验证。此外，推出新产品与服务前，
会通过产品或服务开发流程确保包括市场风险在内的相关风险得到
充分识别和监控管理。我行开展交易账户业务的主要目标之一是提供以客户为中心的产品
和服务，支持客户的业务和对冲需求。我行不断审阅和强化衍生产
品风险管理，以确保合理控制业务复杂性。我行市场风险偏好是考虑了银行整体要求及业务部门目标利润的平
衡的结果，同时也将银行的资本状况考虑其中。从而保证即使在极
端压力条件下，银行依旧保持资本充足。我行将市场风险偏好转化
为风险限额并授权给业务部门管理，业务部门在限额下开展相关业
务所承受的风险与其产生的利润相匹配。我行市场风险偏好涵盖所有交易账户敞口和非交易账户的外汇敞口。
我行市场风险主要源于代客交易行为，结构化产品挂钩的交易行为
以及自营交易等交易组合中利率、汇率和商品价格的变化。我行目前使用标准法计量监管要求下的市场风险资本，使用内部模
型法计量和监控交易账户市场风险。我行在内部市场风险管理中采用 97.5% 置信区间下测算日预期损失
（ES）的历史模拟法。该方法认为诸如利率、汇率和商品价格等风
险因子在未来的变动特征可以通过观察其历史数据得到。ES 是尾部
损失分布的均值，认为通常计量结果大于某一置信区间点计量的潜
在损失。为弥补 ES 测量法的不足，我行借助压力测试及情景测试，找出银行
在面对某些极端情景时可能出现的损失。这些测试为主动市场风险
管理提供了早期预警信息，以应对可能的极端损失。我行 2021 年 12 月 31 日的 ES 为人民币 1,303 万元。Market risk is governed by the ALCO, which meets monthly to review and 
provide directions on market risk matters. The Market Risk Management 
and Product Control (MRPC) and Balance Sheet Risk Management (BSRM) 
Divisions support the BRMC, RCC and ALCO with independent assessment 
of the market risk proﬁle of the Bank.The Bank's market risk framework comprises market risk policies, practices, 
and the control structure with appropriate delegation of authority and 
market risk limits. We employ valuation methodologies that are in line 
with sound market practices and validate valuation and risk models 
independently. In addition, the Product/Service Programme process 
ensures that different risks, including market risk issues, are identiﬁed and 
adequately addressed prior to launch.One of our main objectives in undertaking trading activities is to provide 
customer-centric  products  and  services  to  support  our  customers' 
business and hedging needs. We continually review and enhance our 
management of derivatives risks to ensure that the complexities of the 
Bank's business are appropriately controlled.Our overall market risk appetite is balanced with targeted revenue at the 
Bank and business unit levels and takes into account the capital position 
of the Bank. This ensures that the Bank remains well-capitalised, even 
under stress conditions. The risk appetite is translated into risk limits that 
are delegated to business units. These risk limits have proportional returns 
that are commensurate with the risks taken.Market risk appetite is provided for all trading exposure within the Bank 
and the Bank's non-trading FX exposures. The Bank is mainly exposed to 
market risk in its trading portfolios that arises from changes in interest 
rates, FX rates and commodity prices from the Bank's client-driven market 
making and product structuring activities as well as trading activities.The Bank currently adopts the Standardised Approach for the calculation 
of regulatory market risk capital.The Internal Models Approach is used to measure and to control trading 
market risks. The Bank estimates a daily Expected Shortfall (ES) within a 
97.5 per cent confidence interval over a one-day holding period, using the 
historical VaR simulation method, as a control for market risk. This method 
assumes observed historical market movements can be used to imply possible 
future changes in market rates. ES is the average of the worst losses in the 
distribution, assuming that the losses exceed the speciﬁed percentile.To complement the ES measure, we perform stress and scenario tests to 
identify the Bank's vulnerability to event risk. These tests serve to provide 
early warnings of plausible extreme losses.The Bank's daily ES on 31 December 2021 was RMB13.03 million.交易账户回溯测试结果
Trading Backtesting Chart损益 (人民币 千)P/L (CNY'K)大华银行中国-交易账簿回溯测试(假设日损益与99%置信区间下的风险价值比较)UOB China - Backtest Chart (Hypo PL vs. VaR @ 99% CI) 31 Dec 2020 - 31 Dec 202110(cid:13)0008,0006,0004,0002,0000(2,000)(4,000)(6,000)(8,000)(10,000)(12,000)(14,000)(16,000)(18,000)(20,000)(22,000)31-Dec-20 31-Jan-2129-Feb-2131-Mar-2130-Apr-2131-may-2130-Jun-2131-Jul-2131-Aug-2130-Sep-2131-Oct-2130-Nov-21 31-Dec-21假设日损益 Hypo PL风险价值 VaR在回溯测试中，我行采用历史模拟法 99% 置信区间下的日风险价值
（VaR）。VaR 与 ES 的损失分布一致。通过回溯测试比较交易账户的
损益与 VaR 的差异来验证是否有因为模型缺陷或市场波动导致其中
不符合预期的结果。所有回溯测试反映的问题及解决方案都将汇报
至资产负债委员会。For back testing purpose, the Bank uses daily VaR within a 99 per cent 
confidence interval over a one-day holding period. VaR uses the same 
loss  distribution  as  ES.  The  backtesting  process  analyses  whether 
the exceptions are due to model deficiencies or market volatility. All 
backtesting exceptions are tabled to ALCO with recommended actions 
and resolutions.7677风险管理
Risk Management银行账户利率风险INTEREST RATE RISK IN THE BANKING BOOK流动性风险LIQUIDITY RISK银行帐户利率风险指由于利率的不利变动可能导致银行经济价值或
者整体收益遭受损失的风险。Interest rate risk in the banking book (IRRBB) is defined as the risk of 
potential loss of capital or reduction in earnings due to changes in the 
interest rates environment.我们致力于满足客户对于不同利率结构和期限的产品的需求和偏好。
资产负债的重定价期限和其他特征的错配使其对利率变动有不同的
敏感度，而随着利率水平和收益率曲线的变动，将导致银行的经济
价值的变动或者收益的减少。利率风险管理的主要目标就是在多样
化的经济环境中，通过确保银行有充足、稳定、可靠的净利息收入
来保护并促进银行资本和经济价值的增长。资产负债委员会负责总揽利率风险管理框架的有效性，包括对政策 ,
流程和限额的批准。资产负债风险管理部协助资产负债委员会负责
监测银行账户下的利率风险。各种应用的行为模型均依据相应的政
策经过独立的验证和管理。拟采用对冲工具和策略对银行帐户利率
风险进行管理须遵循银行制定的银行帐户利率风险管理政策，并定
期重新审阅。通过对相应委员会批准对业务部门的授权，以及设定
的限额和警戒线的密切监控，确保银行保持谨慎并对潜在的风险进
行讨论并及时采取行动。我行每月定期通过动态模拟的方法计量银行帐户利率风险。通过使
用集成流动性风险和银行账户利率风险管理的内部统一风险平台确
保及时的风险报告，并进行全面的资产负债风险管理。
 
利率敏感度受重新定价期限、币种，隐含的期权和基准利率的影响。
隐含的期权包括贷款的提前还款和定期存款的提取支取。我行采用
基于经济价值的方法计量银行账户表内外业务的未来重定价现金流
的净现值，来揭示利率变动对银行经济价值潜在影响；同时采用基
于净利息的方法来计量未来利率走势和可能的业务变化对银行净利
息收入的潜在影响。相比于短期错配，长期的利率错配对利率头寸
经济价值的影响更大，而短期的利率错配对净利息收入的影响更大。
模拟利率变动的情景包括巴塞尔委员会定义的六种标准化利率冲击
情景，包括收益率曲线上移、下移和形状变化。我行亦采用定量分析方法定期进行利率风险压力测试 , 以确保银行有
足够的资本金应付因为利率的大幅波动对银行资产负债表的影响。
同时，该压力测试也用于对极端情况下可能发生高额损失的早期预
警并促进银行在快速波动的市场环境下积极地管理利率风险。由于利率，汇率和股权价格变化带来交易账户下的风险通过市场风
险管理框架来进行管理和监控。In the course of our core banking activities, the bank strives to meet 
customers' demands and preferences for products with various interest 
rate  structures  and  maturities.  Mismatches  in  repricing  and  other 
characteristics of assets and liabilities give rise to sensitivity to interest 
rate movements. As interest rates and yield curves change over time, these 
mismatches may result in a change in the bank's economic net worth and/
or a decline in earnings. Our primary objective of managing IRRBB is to 
protect and to enhance capital or economic net worth through adequate, 
stable and reliable growth in net interest earnings under a broad range of 
possible economic conditions.The ALCO maintains oversight of the effectiveness of the interest rate risk 
management structure including approval of policies, controls and limits. 
The BSRM Division supports the ALCO in monitoring the interest rate risk 
proﬁle of the banking book. Behavioural models used are independently 
validated and governed by approved policy. Management and mitigation 
of IRRBB through hedging instruments and activities are governed by 
the Bank's IRRBB policies which are subject to regular review. Monitoring 
of positions against mandates, limits and triggers approved by relevant 
committees and delegated to relevant business units provide alerts for 
timely discussions to control potential risks.The Bank's banking book interest rate risk exposure is quantified on a 
monthly basis using dynamic simulation techniques. The Bank employs 
a holistic approach towards balance sheet risk management, using an in-
house enterprise risk management system to integrate liquidity risk and 
IRRBB into a single platform for the Bank's reporting in a timely manner.Interest rate risk varies with different repricing periods, currencies and 
embedded options and interest rate basis. Embedded options may be in the 
form of loan prepayment and time deposit early withdrawal. In Economic 
Value of Equity (EVE) sensitivity simulations, we compute the present 
value for repricing cash flows, with the focus on changes in EVE under 
different interest rate scenarios. This economic perspective measures 
interest rate risks across the full maturity profile of the balance sheet, 
including off-balance sheet items. We estimate the potential effects 
of interest rate changes on Net Interest Income (NII) by simulating the 
possible future course of interest rates and expected changes in business 
activities over time. Mismatches in the longer tenor will experience 
greater change in EVE than similar positions in the shorter tenor while 
mismatches in the shorter tenor will have a greater impact on NII. Interest 
rate scenarios used in simulations include the six standard scenarios 
prescribed by Basel including positive and negative tilt scenarios.We also perform stress tests regularly to determine the adequacy of 
capital in meeting the impact of extreme interest rate movements on the 
balance sheet. Such tests are also performed to provide early warnings 
of potential extreme losses, facilitating the proactive management of 
interest rate risks in an environment of rapid ﬁnancial market changes.The risks arising from the trading book, such as interest rates, FX rates 
and equity prices are managed and controlled under the market risk 
framework.流动性风险是指商业银行无法以合理成本及时获得充足资金，用
于偿付到期债务、履行其他支付义务和满足正常业务开展的其他
资金需求的风险。我行保持充足的流动性以保障银行日常运营的
开展，满足存款的提款和贷款的发放，投资新项目以及支付到期
的借款。因此，流动性管理的主旨在于应付银行确定的及不可确
定的资金需求。Liquidity risk is the risk that arises from our inability to meet its obligations 
or fund increases in assets as they fall due. We maintain sufﬁcient liquidity 
to fund our day-to-day operations, to meet deposit withdrawals and loan 
disbursements, to participate in new investments and to repay borrowings. 
Hence, liquidity is managed in a manner that addresses known as well as 
unanticipated cash funding needs.我行流动性风险管理是在完整的风险管理框架下进行的，包含经
由资产负债委员会批准的各项政策、控制流程、风险限额。这些
政策、控制流程及风险限额确保我行在不同的市场环境下有充足
的资金以应对流动性需求。具体措施：•  通过多样化资金的来源及其期限将资金集中度降至最小，以及
•  持有高流动性债券。我行在流动性风险管理方面采取保守立场，持续的吸收核心存款，
严格遵守流动性风险额度，保留充足的流动资产等措施来防范可
能出现的资金短缺。我行通过主动分散存款的来源，以确保成本效率的均衡，资金的
持续可获得以及资金来源的多样化。确保流动性重要的因素还包
括通过竞争性定价，积极主动地管理银行的核心存款以及维护客
户的信心。和监管当局的流动性风险管理框架一致，我行通过预测银行现金
流来度量和管理流动性风险，现金流的预测是基于“正常业务情景”
和  压力情景”来进行。我行设置现金流错配限额来控制银行流动
性风险敞口的同时，还采用流动性早期预警指标和警戒线以揭示
可能出现的危机状况。我行的流动性比率、优质流动性资产充足率、
流动性匹配率均高于监管要求的水平。我行在建立的流动性应急计划中运用一系列的预警指标揭示可能
发生的流动性危机。在该应急计划中，我行通过设立危机上报流
程及包括融资、沟通计划等危机处理策略来减少流动性危机所带
来的负面影响。Liquidity risk is managed in accordance with a framework of policies, 
controls and limits approved by the ALCO. These policies, controls and 
limits enable us to monitor and to manage liquidity risk to ensure that 
sufﬁcient sources of funds are available over a range of market conditions. 
This is done by:
•  minimising excessive funding concentrations by diversifying the sourcesand terms of funding, and•  maintaining a portfolio of high quality and marketable debt securities.We take a conservative stance in the Bank's liquidity management by 
continuing to gather core deposits, ensuring that liquidity limits are 
strictly adhered to and that there are adequate liquid assets to meet 
potential cash shortfall.The distribution of deposits is actively managed to ensure a balance 
between  cost-effectiveness,  continued  accessibility  to  funds  and 
diversiﬁcation of funding sources. Important factors in ensuring liquidity 
are competitive pricing, proactive management of the Bank's core deposits 
and the maintenance of customer conﬁdence.Our liquidity risk is aligned with the regulatory liquidity risk management 
framework and is measured and managed on a projected cash ﬂow basis. 
The bank is monitored under business-as-usual and stress scenarios. Cash 
ﬂow mismatch limits are established to limit the bank's liquidity exposure. 
We also employ liquidity early warning indicators and trigger points 
to signal possible contingency situations. Our Liquidity Ratio (LR), High 
Quality Liquid Asset Adequacy Ratio (HQLAAR) and Liquidity Matching 
Ratio (LMR) are above the regulatory requirements.我行已建立与我行负债规模和复杂程度相适应的负债质量管理体
系，对负债质量实施有效管理与监控。我行负债质量管理以确保
我行经营的安全性、流动性和效益性为目的，按照与我行经营战略、
风险偏好和整体业务特征相适应的原则，就负债来源、结构、成
本等方面开展负债质量管理活动。我行董事会承担负债质量管理
最终责任，高级管理层承担负债质量的具体管理工作。在负债质
量管理中，我行通过采用适当的指标（包括但不限于核心负债比例、
存款偏离度、同业融入比例、最大十户存款比例、优质流动性资
产充足率、流动性匹配率、流动性缺口率、重要币种流动性比例、
净息差、银行账簿最大经济价值变动等）来管理负债的稳定性、
多样性、与资产匹配的合理性、并对其中部分指标设定了内部限
额进行管理。我行确保负债项目的真实性，并通过、合理的内部We have contingency funding plans in place to identify potential liquidity 
crises using a series of warning indicators. Crisis management processes 
and various strategies including funding and communication plans have 
been developed to minimise the impact of any liquidity crunch.We have established a Liability Quality Management Framework for the 
effective management and monitoring of its liability. The purpose of the 
framework is to ensure that the bank achieves proﬁtability, sufﬁcient liquidity 
and safe operating of business. Based on our business strategy, risk appetite 
and business' characteristics, we manage our liabilities with consideration of 
multiple factors including cost, liability structure and the source of liability. 
The board undertakes the responsibility of the liability quality management7879风险管理
Risk Management定价、内部控制制度和流程严格确保和执行对外的负债合理定价。
同时各业务部门也会根据业务发展和管理需要，积极拓宽融资渠
道，及时主动获得所需资金能力，提高负债获取的主动性。我行
在应急计划中对压力情况下的市场融资能力进行评估，确保当市
场发生不利变动趋势时，具备以合理价格进行融资和处置资产的
能力。操作风险操作风险是指由不完善或有问题的内部程序、员工和信息科技系统，
以及外部事件所造成损失的风险。操作风险涵盖银行营运风险、信
息科技风险、监管合规风险、法律风险、声誉风险、外包风险、第
三方非外包风险与欺诈风险，但不包括战略风险和业务风险。我行的主要目标是促进建立良好的声誉和经营环境。我行基于已建
立的操作风险管理政策、流程所形成的框架对操作风险进行管理，
帮助业务和支持部门合理地识别、评估、监测、缓释和及时上报各
自业务领域相应操作风险进行。操作风险管理委员会定期召开月度
会议监督管理操作风险有关事宜。我行操作风险治理架构采用“三道防线”的模式。操作风险管理部作
为第二道防线的组成部分，通过相应框架、政策、程序和系统对操
作风险进行总体治理。同时，监测关键风险自我评估结果、外包和
第三方非外包情况、关键操作风险指标超过预警阈值、自我识别的
操作风险以及操作风险损失事件、产品和服务规程事宜，将操作风
险管理相关问题向相应高级管理委员会及董事会进行报告。风险识别和控制自我评估是我行操作风险管理框架的两项重要组成
部分。通过在全行范围实施一系列操作风险管理程序加以实现。我
行制定了多项风险缓释政策和程序以维持稳健的经营环境。我行的业务连续性和危机管理程序，确保了在发生意外事件时，关
键业务和支持部门得以迅速恢复。管理层向董事会提交年度验证报
告，陈述本行当前业务连续性就绪情况。80and the management carries out the liability management activities. We 
manage the stability, diversity and, structure of the liability by monitoring and 
managing a series of ratios, including but not limited to Core Liability Ratio, 
Deposit Deviation, Inter-bank Funding Ratio, Top Ten Depositors, High Quality 
Liquid Asset Adequacy Ratio (HQLAAR), Liquidity Matching Ratio (LMR), 
Liquidity Gap, Liquidity Ratio for major currencies, Net Interest Margin (NIM), 
and Economic Value of Equity (EVE). Several ratios are imposed with internal 
limits for management purpose. We ensure that our liabilities are legitimate 
and authentic. The bank has a fair and comprehensive FTP mechanism to 
determine its liabilities' cost.  Furthermore, business units will proactively 
improve funding capability and capacity so as to meet our business and 
management needs. We will execute assessment on market funding capacity 
under stressed scenarios to make sure the bank still has the capacity to fund 
at a fair level when encountering Unfavourable situation in the market.OPERATIONAL RISKOperational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal 
processes, people and systems, or from external events. Operational risk 
includes banking operations risk, technology risk, regulatory compliance risk, 
legal risk, reputational risk, outsourcing risk, third party non-outsourcing risk 
and fraud risk but excludes strategic and business risk.Our primary objective is to foster a sound reputation and operating 
environment. Operational risk is managed through a framework of policies 
and procedures to help business and support units properly identify, assess, 
monitor, mitigate and report their risks. The ORMC meets monthly to provide 
oversight of operational risk matters in the bank.The Operational Risk Governance structure adopts the three Lines model. The 
Operational Risk Management Division, as part of the Second line, provides 
overarching governance of operational risk through relevant frameworks, 
policies, programmes and systems. It also monitors key risk and control self-
assessment results, outsourcing and third party non-outsourcing matters, 
key operational risk indicator breaches, self-identiﬁed operational risks and 
incidents, product and service programme matters and reports these to the 
relevant senior management committees and the Board.Two key components of the operational risk management framework are risk 
identiﬁcation and control self-assessments. These are achieved through the 
Bank-wide implementation of a set of operational risk programmes. Several 
risk mitigation policies and programmes are also in place to maintain a sound 
operating environment.Our business continuity and crisis management programmes ensure prompt 
recovery of critical business and support units should there be unforeseen 
events. An annual attestation is provided to the Board on the current state of 
business continuity readiness of the Bank.我行的保险计划覆盖刑事和民事责任，网络责任，财产毁损，恐怖
行动，公共责任以及董事和高级管理人员责任，通过充分的保险保
障以减轻操作损失。Our insurance programme covers crime and civil liability, cyber liability, 
property damage, terrorism, public liability, as well as directors' and ofﬁcers' 
liability. The programme reduces operational losses through adequate 
insurance coverage.我行采用基本指标法计提操作风险资本。我行所关注的操作风险项下主要风险包括但不限于：We adopt the Basic Indicator Approach for the calculation of Operational 
Risk Capital.信息科技风险The subject-speciﬁc key risks that we focus on include but are not limited to:信息科技风险是指由于使用或依赖信息和通信技术而产生的任何潜
在的不利后果、损坏、损失、违规、失败或中断。操作风险管理委
员会负责信息科技风险的治理，其对全行的操作风险事项进行全面
监督。我行的信息科技风险管理框架确保我行以系统且一致的方式
管理信息科技和网络风险。信息科技风险管理的范围涵盖很多方面，
包括信息科技资产管理、业务连续性管理中的技术弹性和服务连续
性问题、网络安全管理以及信息安全管理。作为第二道防线的组成部分，我行的信息科技风险管理部对全行的
信息科技风险管理进行监督，该团队与包括信息科技和安全团队在
内的业务和支持部门密切合作，监督、检查和加强各部门在信息科
技风险管理方面的现行做法。我行采用风险导向的方法评估及管理
信息科技和网络风险，并定期向董事会、高级管理层以及操作风险
管理委员会报告信息科技风险偏好及信息科技风险事项。监管合规风险监管合规风险是指违反银行业务经营相关的法律、法规、规定、标
准或我行行为准则所可能导致的监管制裁、财务损失或银行声誉及
机构价值遭受损害的风险，或因监管法律法规要求变更所增加的运
营和资金成本从而影响银行收益或回报的风险。我行通过监管合规
风险治理框架及其辅助政策、流程和指引对合规风险加以识别、监
测和管理。该框架覆盖了反洗钱和反恐怖融资。法律风险法律风险来自不可执行的、不利的、有缺陷的或违背意愿的合同；
与我行有关的诉讼或请求；法律法规的变化；或与适用的法律法规
不合规。业务和支持部门协同我行内外部法律顾问管理法律风险。Technology RiskTechnology risk is defined as any potential adverse outcome, damage, 
loss, violation, failure or disruption arising from the use of or reliance on 
information and communication technologies. The governance of technology 
risk rests with the ORMC, who facilitates a holistic oversight of operational 
risk matters across the Bank. Our technology risk management framework 
ensures that technology and cyber risks are managed in a systematic and 
consistent manner. The scope of technology risk management covers many 
aspects, including technology asset management, technology resiliency 
and the service continuity aspects of business continuity management, 
cybersecurity management and information security management.Our Technology Risk Management Division, as part of the Second Line, 
has governance and oversight of technology risk management across the 
Bank. The team works closely with business and support units, including 
the technology and information security teams, to oversee, to review and 
to strengthen their current practices in technology risk management. We 
adopt a risk-based approach in assessing and managing technology and cyber 
risks. Our Board, senior management and ORMC are briefed regularly on 
technology risk appetite and technology risk matters.Regulatory Compliance RiskRegulatory compliance risk refers to the risk of regulatory sanctions, ﬁnancial 
loss, or damage to the Bank's reputation and franchise value that may arise 
when the Bank fails to comply with laws, regulations, rules, standards or UOB 
China Codes of Conduct applicable to the bank's business activities and 
operations, or the risk that a change in laws and regulations can increase the 
cost of operation and the cost of capital for the Bank thereby impacting the 
Bank's earnings or returns. We identify, monitor and manage this risk through 
the Regulatory Compliance Risk Governance framework supported with 
policies, procedures and guidelines. The framework also covers anti-money 
laundering and countering the ﬁnancing of terrorism.Legal RiskLegal risk arises from unenforceable, unfavourable, defective or unintended 
contracts, lawsuits or claims, developments in laws and regulations, or non-
compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Business and support units 
work with both internal and external legal counsel to ensure that legal risks 
are effectively managed.81风险管理
Risk Management声誉风险Reputational Risk环境、社会及治理风险ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE RISK声誉风险是指因银行利益相关方对我行经营方式、业务活动和财务
状况的负面预期或看法，进而对我行盈利能力、流动性或资本产生
不利影响的风险。我行充分认识到声誉风险影响并通过声誉风险管
理政策管理我行声誉风险。Reputational risk is the risk of adverse impact on earnings, liquidity or capital 
arising from negative stakeholder perception or opinion of the Bank's business 
practices, activities and financial condition. We recognise the impact of 
reputational risk and manage the risk through the Bank's Reputational Risk 
Management Policy.外包风险外包风险是由于服务提供商未能提供外包服务、未遵守法律和监管
要求、违反保密规定而对我行财务、经营、声誉，法律和合规产生
负面影响的风险。我行通过外包风险管理框架、政策和规程与指引，
以及全面操作风险管理系统的外包模块的辅助支持，对外包风险加
以管理。第三方非外包风险由第三方供应商向我行或我行客户提供产品和服务的安排可能引发
第三方非外包风险。一旦第三方无法提供产品或服务，或发生数据
泄露等违反信息安全事件将地我行财务、经营、声誉、法律和合规
等方面造成不良影响。 我行建立了第三方非外包风险管理政策和指
引，结合全面操作风险管理系统（GRC）的第三方风险管理模块，
对第三方非外包风险进行管理。欺诈风险欺诈是指具有欺骗或掩盖事实等特征的行为，不仅限与获取金钱或
实质利益相关。我们积极管控欺诈风险。在公司治理方面，欺诈风险由董事会下设
董事会风险管理委员会负责监督，在高级管理层由操作风险管理委
员会实施监督，并由分别设立于总行及各分行的案件防控工作组提
供支持。欺诈风险管理部作为第二道防线的组成部分，推动欺诈风
险管理策略与治理的实施，并监督欺诈风险管理框架与政策的执行，
包括牵头案件防控工作组的工作以落实监管部门相关要求。全体员工均须遵循《大华银行中国员工行为准则》，其中包含反贿
赂和反腐败的有关规定。欺诈风险管理部负责管理的大华银行中国
欺诈事件举报热线，提供了一个举报疑似欺诈的安全渠道。欺诈风
险管理部实施独立的欺诈调查。该部门也与业务及支持部门紧密协
作，从预防、侦测、调查、整改及报告等五个方面持续加强全行欺
诈风险管理体系的运行。Outsourcing RiskOutsourcing risk is the risk of adverse ﬁnancial, operational, and reputational, 
legal and compliance impact arising from the failure of a service provider 
to provide the outsourced service or to comply with legal and regulatory 
requirements, or a service provider's breaches of security. We manage this 
risk through the Bank's Outsourcing Risk Management Framework, policies, 
procedures and guidelines, supported by the outsourcing module in the 
Governance, Risk and Compliance (GRC) system.Third Party Non-Outsourcing RiskThird party non-outsourcing risk arises from arrangements where a third 
party provides a product or service to UOB China or UOB China's customers. 
This risk could result in adverse ﬁnancial, operational, reputational, legal and 
compliance impacts arising from the failure of a third party to provide the 
product or service, or the third party's breaches of security, including data 
leakages. We manage this risk through the Third Party Non-Outsourcing Risk 
Management Policy and Guidelines, supported by the GRC system.Fraud RiskFraud is deﬁned as an act, with an element to deceive or to conceal facts; and 
is not restricted to the gain of monetary or material beneﬁts.We manage fraud risks actively. The corporate governance oversight of fraud 
risk is provided by the BRMC at the Board level and primarily by the ORMC 
at the senior management level, supported by Anti-Fraud Working Groups 
set up in headquarters and branches. Our Integrated Fraud Management 
(IFM) Division, as part of the Second Line, drives strategy and governance 
and oversees the framework and policy of fraud risk management across 
the country, which covers Anti-Fraud tasks in accordance with regulatory 
requirements as well.All employees are required to comply with the UOB China Code of Conduct, 
which has anti-bribery and anti-corruption provisions. The UOB China's fraud 
hotline managed by IFM provides a safe channel to report suspected fraud. 
IFM conducts independent fraud investigations. The division also works 
closely with business and support units to strengthen its practices across the 
ﬁve pillars of prevention, detection, response, remediation and reporting.82ESG 风险是指由 ESG 问题引致的信贷损失或非金融风险。虽然 ESG
风险主要间接源于我们为客户提供的金融服务，但它也可能来自我
行自身的运营行为。已建立的 ESG 治理和控制流程，可识别和审阅
就我行而言有实质影响的 ESG 因素，并确保我行业务各方面 ( 包括
日常决策 ) 都考虑了可持续发展因素。各因素范畴的特定风险则根
据各自的框架、政策或指导方针进行监控和管理。针对批发银行融资和债市业务活动，我行确保将 ESG 纳入信贷评估
和批准流程。为此，我们已将负责任融资政策 ( 经风险与资本委员
会批准 ) 作为银行企业信贷政策的一部分付诸实施。根据负责任融资政策，在新客户引入和年度信贷审阅期间，客户经
理必须对新增和现有客户做完善的尽职调查。银行需要对客户是否
存在重大 ESG 风险进行评估，包括是否满足负责任融资禁入名单的
要求，或者客户 ESG 风险管控的能力、意愿和过往记录等方面。根
据负责任融资指引要求，针对 ESG 风险敏感行业的客户需要强化尽
职调查要求。所有借款人都要根据 ESG 风险水平进行分类，并持续
监测任何与 ESG 相关的不利消息。如果发生任何已知重大 ESG 事件，
应对相关客户立即进行审阅以确定 ESG 风险状况并采取妥善的缓释
措施。策略风险和业务风险策略风险指由于不利的战略决策，决策执行不当或对行业，经济或
科技变化缺乏响应，而对收益、资本或声誉造成当前或预期的负面
影响。策略风险可能导致无法实现银行的战略目标。业务风险指由于业务参数的变化，例如业务量，利润和成本的变化
而对收益或资本产生不利影响。业务风险的来源包括产品或价格缺
乏竞争力，内部效率低下以及总体业务环境的变化，例如市场收缩
或客户期望和需求的变化。业务风险可能导致无法实现银行的短期
业务目标。我行董事会和高级管理层委员会负责与银行业务相关的风险治理。
董事会下执行委员会协助董事会处理策略风险和业务风险管理事宜。
行长兼首席执行官，在高级管理层委员会的支持下，负责银行日常
管理，并在银行的风险偏好内进行业务决策。在考虑到宏观经济环
境的情况下，本行的战略转化为年度财务目标，并传导至业务条线
制定和实施有针对性的业务部门战略。ESG risk is the risk of credit loss or non-financial risks arising from ESG 
issues. While a key component of ESG risk arises indirectly from the 
ﬁnancial services we provide to our customers, it can also result directly 
from our own operations. ESG governance and control process are put in 
place to identify and review ESG factors material to the Bank, and ensures 
that sustainability factors are considered in aspects of our operations 
(including  day-to-day  decision-making  processes).  The  specific  risk 
associated with each factor is monitored and managed in accordance with 
the respective framework, policy or guidelines.Specific to our wholesale financing and debt capital market activities, 
the Bank ensure that ESG considerations are integrated into the credit 
evaluation and approval processes. To this end, we have incorporated our 
Responsible Financing Policy (approved by the RCC) a part of the Bank's 
Corporate Credit Policy.Under our Responsible Financing Policy, account ofﬁcers are required to 
conduct due diligence on all new and existing customers during the client 
onboarding process and annual credit review. Customers are assessed for 
material ESG risk, including alignment with the Bank's responsible ﬁnancing 
exclusion list, as well as their capacity for, commitment to and track 
record in ESG risk management. Customers in the ESG-sensitive industries 
per responsible ﬁnancing guidelines are subject to enhanced due diligence 
with sector-speciﬁc guidelines. All customers are classiﬁed based on the 
level of ESG risk in their business and are monitored on an ongoing basis 
for any adverse ESG-related news. Those with any known material ESG-
related incidents would trigger an immediate review to address the ESG 
risks appropriately.STRATEGIC AND BUSINESS RISKStrategic risk refers to the current or prospective negative impact on 
earnings, capital or reputation arising from adverse strategic decisions, 
improper implementation of decisions or a lack of responsiveness to 
industry, economic or technological changes. It is the risk of not achieving 
the Bank's strategic goals.Business risk refers to the adverse impact on earnings or capital arising 
from changes in business parameters such as volumes, margins and costs. 
The sources of business risk include uncompetitive products or pricing, 
internal inefﬁciencies, and changes in general business conditions such as 
market contraction or changes in customers' expectations and demand. It 
is the risk of not achieving the Bank's short-term business objectives.The  Board  of  Directors  and  senior  management  committees  are 
responsible for managing risks associated with the Bank's business. The 
Executive Committee assist the Board in relation to the management of 
strategic and business risks. The CEO, supported by senior management 
committees oversee the day-to-day management of the Bank and make 
business decisions within the Bank's risk appetite. The Bank's strategy 
is then translated into annual financial targets, taking into account the 
macroeconomic environment, and cascaded to specific business for 
development and implementation.83重要事项
Important Highlights营业网点
Branch Network（一）股东情况(1) Shareholder Status Update股东名称：大华银行有限公司，持股比 100%。Name of Shareholder: United Overseas Bank Limited
Percentage of shares held: 100 per cent.（二）报告期内，我行无合并、分立等其他重大事项发生。(2)   During the reporting period, there were no split（三）报告期内，我行董事、监事及高级管理人员无受监管部门处罚的情况发生。（四）报告期内我行发生的重大事件or merger activities or other major corporate 
developments during the reporting period.(3)  None of the Bank's directors, supervisors or topmanagement was penalised by the regulatory 
authorities during the reporting period.(4)  Highlights during the reporting period:•  2021 年 11 月，北京分行迁址。
•  2021 年 12 月 31 日，我行收到上海银保监局批准，增加注册资本
20 亿。增资后，我行注册资本由人民币 55 亿元增加到人民币 75
亿元。In November 2021, Beijing Branch was relocated.• 
•  On  31  December  2021,  China  Banking  and  Insurance  Regulatory 
Committee Shanghai Ofﬁce approved UOB China to increase registered 
capital from RMB5.5 billion to RMB7.5 billion.总行
上海市浦东新区银城路
116 号、128 号 
邮编 : 200120
电话 : (86) (21) 6061 8888
传真 : (86) (21) 6886 0908
SWIFT: UOVBCNSH
网址 : www.uobchina.com.cn上海分行
上海市浦东新区银城路
116 号、128 号 102 室
邮编 : 200120
电话 : (86) (21) 6061 8288
传真 : (86) (21) 6886 1113静安支行
( 上海 )
上海市静安区南京西路 1468 号
中欣大厦 1P01-02 室、201-203 室
邮编 : 200040
电话 : (86) (21) 6080 9366
传真 : (86) (21) 6289 1001徐家汇支行
( 上海 )
上海市徐汇区虹桥路 1 号
港汇广场办公楼第一座 30 层
01-03 号单元
邮编 : 200030
电话 : (86) (21) 6091 5788
传真 : (86) (21) 6323 3015上海自贸试验区支行
（对公业务）
上海自由贸易试验区银城路
116、128 号
大华银行大厦六层 602 室
邮编 : 200120
电话 : (86) (21) 6061 8176
传真 : (86) (21) 6886 0906Head Ofﬁce
No 116, 128 Yincheng Road, 
Pudong New Area, 
Shanghai 200120
Tel: (86) (21) 6061 8888
Fax: (86) (21) 6886 0908
SWIFT: UOVBCNSH
Website: www.uobchina.com.cn北京分行
北京市朝阳区景华南街 5 号
远洋光华国际 C 栋
27 层 2701、2707、2708、
2709 单元
邮编 : 100020
电话 : (86) (10) 5879 2626
传真 : (86) (10) 8590 6725Beijing Branch 
Unit 2701, 2707, 2708, 2709, 27 Floor 
Tower C Ofﬁce Park, 
No. 5 Jing Hua South Street, 
Chaoyang District,   
Beijing 100020
Tel: (86) (10) 5879 2626
Fax: (86) (10) 8590 6725Shanghai Branch
Room 102,
No 116, 128 Yincheng Road, 
Pudong New Area, 
Shanghai 200120
Tel: (86) (21) 6061 8288
Fax: (86) (21) 6886 1113成都分行
成都市锦江区红星路三段 1 号
国际金融中心一号办公楼 21
楼单元 8,9 及 10 
邮编 : 610021
电话 : (86) (28) 6879 2888
传真 : (86) (28) 8653 1878Jing'An Sub-branch 
(Shanghai)
Room 1P01-02, 201-203, 
United Plaza, 
1468 Nanjing Road West, 
Jing'An District,
Shanghai 200040
Tel: (86) (21) 6080 9366
Fax: (86) (21) 6289 1001Xujiahui Sub-branch (Shanghai)
Unit 01-03, 30 Floor, 
Grand Gateway Tower 1, 
1 Hongqiao Road, 
Xuhui District, 
Shanghai 200030
Tel: (86) (21) 6091 5788
Fax: (86) (21) 6323 3015Shanghai Pilot Free Trade Zone 
Sub-branch
 (Wholesale Banking Only)
Room 602, 6 Floor, 
No 116, 128 Yincheng Road, 
Shanghai Pilot Free Trade Zone,  
Shanghai 200120
Tel: (86) (21) 6061 8176
Fax: (86) (21) 6886 0906昆明分行
（对公业务）
昆明市五华区崇仁街 1 号
东方柏丰首座商务中心
东楼 21 层 2105、2106 号
邮编 : 650000
电话 : (86) (871) 6555 0777
传真 : (86) (871) 6361 6191广州分行
（对公业务）
广州市天河区天河路 385 号
太古汇 1 座 3801 室
邮编 : 510620
电话 : (86) (20) 2881 3688
传真 : (86) (20) 8755 8830沈阳分行
沈阳市沈河区北站路 61 号
沈阳财富中心项目 A 座
21 层 06/07 号
邮编 : 110013
电话 : (86) (24) 3121 2168   
传真 : (86) (24) 3116 2078Chengdu Branch
Unit 8, 9, 10, 21 Floor, 
Ofﬁce Tower 1, Chengdu IFS, 
No 1 Section 3 Hongxing Road, 
Jinjiang District,   
Chengdu 610021
Tel:  (86) (28) 6879 2888
Fax: (86) (28) 8653 1878Kunming Branch
 (Wholesale Banking Only)
Unit 2105 and 2106, 21 Floor, 
East Tower, MASTER, 
No 1 Chongren Street, 
Wuhua District, 
Kunming 650000   
Tel: (86) (871) 6555 0777
Fax: (86) (871) 6361 6191Guangzhou Branch 
(Wholesale Banking Only)
Suite 3801, TaiKoo Hui Tower 1
385 Tianhe Road, 
Tianhe District, 
Guangzhou 510620 
Tel: (86) (20) 2881 3688
Fax: (86) (20) 8755 8830Shenyang Branch
Unit 06/07, 21 Floor, 
Fortune Plaza Tower A, 
No 61, Beizhan Road, 
Shenhe District,   
Shenyang 110013
Tel: (86) (24) 3121 2168  
Fax: (86) (24) 3116 20788485营业网点
Branch Network深圳分行
（对公业务）
深圳市罗湖区深南东路 5016 号
京基一百大厦
A-6001-03 单元
邮编 : 518001
电话 : (86) (755) 2294 5688
传真 : (86) (755) 8246 3326Shenzhen Branch 
(Wholesale Banking Only)
Unit 6001-03, Tower A, 
KingKey 100, 
No 5016 Shennan Road East, 
Luohu District,
Shenzhen 518001
Tel: (86) (755) 2294 5688
Fax: (86) (755) 8246 3326重庆分行
重庆市渝中区民生路 235 号
海航保利国际中心写字楼
31 层 A 单元
邮编 : 400010
电话 : (86) (23) 6037 2888
传真 : (86) (23) 6037 2788Chongqing Branch
Unit A, 31 Floor 
HNA-POLY International Centre, 
No 235 Min Sheng Road, 
Yuzhong District,    
Chongqing 400010 
Tel: (86) (23) 6037 2888
Fax: (86) (23) 6037 2788厦门分行
厦门市湖滨北路 19 号
大华银行大厦 1-2 层
邮编 : 361012
电话 : (86) (592) 508 1601
传真 : (86) (592) 508 1605Xiamen Branch
1-2 Floor, 
United Overseas Bank Building, 
No 19 North Hubin Road, 
Xiamen 361012
Tel: (86) (592) 508 1601
Fax: (86) (592) 508 1605苏州分行
( 对公业务）
苏州工业园区华池街 88 号
晋合广场 1 幢 1801 室
邮编 : 215000
电话 : (86) (512) 6298 5200
传真 : (86) (512) 8686 2006Suzhou Branch
 (Wholesale Banking Only)
Unit 1801, Tower 1, 
Jinghope Square,
No 88 Huachi Street, 
Suzhou Industrial Park,    
Suzhou 215000
Tel: (86) (512) 6298 5200
Fax: (86) (512) 8686 2006中山分行
（对公业务）
广东省中山市中山三路 16 号
之三国际金融中心
37 层 1、2、12 卡
邮编 : 528400
电话 : (86) (760) 8770 7666
传真 : (86) (760) 8989 2900Zhongshan Branch
 (Wholesale Banking Only)
Unit 1,2 and 12, 37 Floor, 
Zhisan International Financial Centre, 
No 16 Zhongshan San Road,   
Zhongshan 528400
Tel: (86) (760) 8770 7666
Fax: (86) (760) 8989 2900天津分行
天津市南开区长江道与
南开三马路交口
融汇广场 2-1-2207、2208、
2209
邮编 : 300100
电话 : (86) (22) 8701 7070
传真 : (86) (22) 8738 0500杭州分行
杭州市西湖区天目山路 181 号
天际大厦 201、203 室
邮编 : 310013
电话 : (86) (571) 2809 0666
传真 : (86) (571) 8190 9619Tianjin Branch
Unit 2-1-2207, 2208 and 2209, 
RongHui Plaza, 
Changjiang Road, 
Nankai District, 
Tianjin 300100
Tel: (86) (22) 8701 7070
Fax: (86) (22) 873 80500Hangzhou Branch
Room 201 and 203, 
Skyline Plaza,
No 181 Tian Mu Shan Road, 
Xihu District, 
Hangzhou 310013
Tel: (86) (571) 2809 0666
Fax: (86) (571) 8190 9619大华银行 ( 中国 ) 有限公司
2021 年 12 月 31 日
United Overseas Bank (China) Limited
31 December 2021已审财务报表
Audited Financial Statements88  一、审计报告AUDITORS'  REPORT93  二、财务报表AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS93949596981.  资产负债表Balance Sheet2.  利润表Income Statement3.  所有者权益变动表Statement of Changes in Equity4.  现金流量表Statement of Cash Flows5.  财务报表附注Notes to Financial Statements8687审计报告
Auditors' Report8889审计报告
Auditors' ReportErnst & Young Hua Ming (2022) Shen Zi No 60658622_B01
United Overseas Bank (China) LimitedTo the Board of Directors of United Overseas Bank (China) Limited:(I) OpinionWe  have  audited  the  accompanying  financial  statements  of  United 
Overseas Bank (China) Limited (hereinafter referred to as "the Bank"), 
which comprise the balance sheet as at 31 December 2021, the income 
statement, the statement of changes in equity and the statement of cash 
ﬂows for the year then ended, and notes to the ﬁnancial statements.In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements present fairly, in 
all material respects, United Overseas Bank (China) Limited's financial 
position  as  at  31  December  2021  and  United  Overseas  Bank  (China) 
Limited's ﬁnancial performance and cash ﬂows for the year then ended in 
accordance with Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises ("ASBEs").(II) Basis for OpinionWe conducted our audit in accordance with China Standards on Auditing 
("CSAs"). Our responsibilities under those standards are further described 
in the Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the ﬁnancial statements 
section of our report. We are independent of United Overseas Bank 
(China) Limited in accordance with China Code of Ethics for Certified 
Public Accountants (the "Code"), and we have fulﬁlled our other ethical 
responsibilities in accordance with the Code.  We believe that the audit 
evidence we have obtained is sufﬁcient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our opinion.(III)  Responsibilities of the management and those chargedwith governance for the ﬁnancial statementsThe management of United Overseas Bank (China) Limited is responsible 
for the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in 
accordance with ASBEs, and for designing, implementing and maintaining 
such internal control as the management determines is necessary to 
enable the preparation of ﬁnancial statements that are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.In preparing the ﬁnancial statements, the management is responsible for 
assessing United Overseas Bank (China) Limited's ability to continue as a 
going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern 
and using the going concern basis of accounting, unless the management 
either intends to liquidate United Overseas Bank (China) Limited or to 
cease operations or has no realistic alternative but to do so.Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing United 
Overseas Bank (China) Limited's ﬁnancial reporting process.(IV)Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the ﬁnancial 
statementsOur objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the 
financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor's report that 
includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, 
but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with CSAs 
will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements 
can arise from fraud or error and are generally considered material if, 
individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to 
influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these 
ﬁnancial statements.As part of an audit in accordance with CSAs, we exercise professional 
judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We 
also:(1)Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the ﬁnancial 
statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit 
procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that 
is sufﬁcient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The 
risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud 
is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve 
collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the 
override of internal control.9091(2)  Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit 
in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the 
circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on 
the effectiveness of internal control.(3)  Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the 
reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made 
by the management.(4)  Conclude on the appropriateness of the management's use of the 
going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence 
obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events 
or conditions that may cast significant doubt on United Overseas 
Bank (China) Limited's ability to continue as a going concern. If 
we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to 
draw attention in our auditor's report to the related disclosures inthe financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to 
modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence 
obtained up to the date of our auditor's report. However, future 
events or conditions may cause United Overseas Bank (China) Limited 
to cease to continue as a going concern.(5)  Evaluate the overall presentation including the disclosures, structure 
and content of the financial statements, and whether the financial 
statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a 
manner that achieves fair presentation.We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among 
other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and signiﬁcant 
audit ﬁndings, including any signiﬁcant deﬁciencies in internal control that 
we identify during our audit.Ernst & Young Hua Ming LLP, Shanghai BranchChinese Certiﬁed Public Accountant: Zhou, MingjunChinese Certiﬁed Public Accountant: Huang, BeiyiShanghai      China25 March 202292资产：现金及存放中央银行款项贵金属存放同业款项拆出资金交易性金融资产衍生金融资产买入返售金融资产发放贷款和垫款其他债权投资固定资产使用权资产无形资产递延所得税资产其他资产资产总计负债：同业及其他金融机构存放款项拆入资金交易性金融负债衍生金融负债卖出回购金融资产款吸收存款应付职工薪酬应交税费应付债券预计负债租赁负债其他负债负债合计所有者权益：实收资本资本公积其他综合收益盈余公积一般风险准备未分配利润所有者权益合计负债及所有者权益总计ASSETS:
Cash and deposit with the Central Bank
Precious metals
Due from banks and other ﬁnancial institutions
Placements with banks and other ﬁnancial institutions
Financial assets held-for-trading
Derivative ﬁnancial assets
Reverse repurchase ﬁnancial assets
Loans and advances to customers
Other debt instrument at fair value through other 
comprehensive income 
Fixed assets
Right-of-use assets
Intangible assets
Deferred tax assets
Other assets
TOTAL ASSETS
LIABILITIES:
Due to banks and other ﬁnancial institutions
Placements from banks and other ﬁnancial institutions
Financial liabilities held-for-trading 
Derivative ﬁnancial liabilities
Repurchase agreements 
Customer deposits
Payroll payables
Tax payables
Debt securities issued
Provisions
Lease liabilities
Other liabilities
TOTAL LIABILITIES
EQUITY:
Paid-up capital
Capital reserve
Other comprehensive income
Surplus reserves
General reserves
Retained earnings
TOTAL EQUITY
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY后附财务报表附注为本财务报表的组成部分
The accompanying notes to ﬁnancial statements form an integral part of these ﬁnancial statements.本财务报表由以下人士签署：
The ﬁnancial statements have been signed by:行长兼首席执行官、董事 : 符懋赞 
President and CEO, Director: Peter Foo Moo Tan首席财务官 : 朱轩
CFO: Brian Zhu Xuan资产负债表
Balance Sheet2021 年 12 月 31 日 31 December 2021
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)附注七
Notes 731-12-202131-12-202012
3
4
5
6
7
89
10
11
12
1314
15
16
5
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
2425
26
27
28
29
306,204,494,006 
1,285,539,961 
3,544,261,854
8,608,835,079 
2,197,434,189 
4,541,743,724 
1,432,434,176 
39,160,105,030 
10,436,771,93732,862,776 
74,878,636 
73,046,606 
145,986,701 
481,724,649 
78,220,119,3241,946,271,700 
12,014,965,224 
6,899,748,675 
4,303,446,588 
1,190,494,609 
41,712,748,009 
155,636,635 
71,696,037 
1,720,431,429 
46,111,016 
73,207,755 
629,606,260 
70,764,363,9375,500,000,000 
18,674,334 
68,035,109 
171,675,736 
878,275,849 
819,094,359 
7,455,755,387 
78,220,119,3244,693,593,314
1,564,487,585
3,680,713,165
6,667,892,648
 1,525,241,844 
 11,567,136,341 
 2,273,636,714 
 36,186,036,127 
 11,029,276,74429,929,546 
 122,074,703 
 81,570,414 
 202,938,571 
 863,014,874 
80,487,542,5901,624,596,625
16,592,129,932
3,644,232,118
11,611,363,625
466,069,704
36,463,148,695
104,044,398
136,876,941
2,037,710,703
50,061,234
118,432,977
583,203,499
73,431,870,4515,500,000,000
 17,337,049 
 2,191,618 
 138,385,488 
 849,267,920 
 548,490,064 
7,055,672,139
80,487,542,59093利润表
Income Statement2021 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2021
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)一、营业收入1. OPERATING INCOME利息收入利息支出利息净收入Interest incomeInterest expenseNet interest income手续费及佣金收入Fee and commission income手续费及佣金支出Fee and commission expense手续费及佣金净收入Net fee and commission income投资收益Investment income公允价值变动净损益Gain/(loss) from changes in fair value汇兑损益Foreign exchange gain/(loss)资产处置收益Gain or loss on disposal of assets其他收益Other income营业收入合计TOTAL OPERATING INCOME二、营业支出税金及附加业务及管理费信用减值损失营业支出合计三、营业利润2. OPERATING EXPENSESTax and surchargesGeneral and administrative expensesCredit impairment lossesTOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES3. OPERATING PROFIT加：营业外收入Add: Non-operating income减：营业外支出Less: Non-operating expenses四、税前利润总额4. PROFIT BEFORE TAX减：所得税费用Less: Income tax expense五、净利润5. NET PROFIT六、其他综合收益的税后净额6. OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME, NET OF TAX以公允价值计量且其变动计入
其他综合收益的债务工具投资
公允价值变动以公允价值计量且其变动计入
其他综合收益的债务工具投资
信用损失准备Change in the fair value of debt investments at fair value 
through other comprehensive incomeCredit impairment losses of debt investments at fair value 
through other comprehensive Income附注七
Notes 7202120202,092,226,5972,155,342,775(980,943,356)(1,163,722,814)1,111,283,241991,619,961212,060,158193,384,515(47,999,761)(50,505,904)164,060,397142,878,61141,163,804180,581,914148,369,007(7,351,276)130,196,787122,388,518151,9172,316,24342,7293,434,6351,597,541,3961,433,595,092(15,614,473)(14,702,798)(1,048,954,297)(1,037,781,074)(132,363,908)(267,602,034)(1,196,932,678)(1,320,085,906)400,608,718113,509,186138,75347,173(2,326,955)(6,342,178)398,420,516(65,518,044)332,902,472107,214,1811,517,169108,731,350313131323232333435363738392727所有者权益变动表 
Statement of Changes in Equity2021 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2021
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)实收资本 
Paid-up
capital资本公积 
Capital
reserve其他综合收益
Other
comprehensive 
income盈余公积
Surplus
reserves一般风险准备
General
reserves未分配利润 
Retained
earnings合计 
Total本年年初金额Opening balance5,500,000,00017,337,0492,191,618138,385,488849,267,920548,490,0647,055,672,139本年增减变动金额Movements during the year（一）综合收益总额(i)  Total comprehensive income（二）所有者投入和减少资本(ii)  Injection of funds by anddistribution of funds to the 
investor1. 股份支付计入所有者权1. Share-based payment益的金额（三）利润分配(iii)  Proﬁt appropriation1. 提取盈余公积1. Appropriation to surplus reserves2. 提取一般风险准备2. Appropriation to generalreserves-------1,337,28565,843,49133,290,24829,007,929270,604,295400,083,248-65,843,4911,337,2851,337,285--------------332,902,472398,745,963--1,337,2851,337,28533,290,24829,007,929(62,298,177)33,290,248-(33,290,248)-29,007,929(29,007,929)---本年年末余额Closing balance5,500,000,00018,674,33468,035,109171,675,736878,275,849819,094,3597,455,755,387本年年初金额Opening balance5,500,000,00014,562,83042,888,850127,512,353816,675,492483,224,2776,984,863,802实收资本 
Paid-up
capital资本公积 
Capital
reserve其他综合收益
Other
comprehensive 
income盈余公积
Surplus
reserves一般风险准备
General
reserves未分配利润 
Retained
earnings合计 
Total2020 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2020
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)本年增减变动金额Movements during the year（一）综合收益总额(i)  Total comprehensive income（二）所有者投入和减少资本(ii)  Injection of funds by anddistribution of funds to the 
investor1. 股份支付计入所有者权1. Share-based payment益的金额-------2,774,219(40,697,232)10,873,13532,592,42865,265,78770,808,337-(40,697,232)2,774,2192,774,219--------------108,731,35068,034,118--2,774,2192,774,21910,873,13532,592,428(43,465,563)10,873,135-(10,873,135)-32,592,428(32,592,428)---38,550,600(40,777,351)（三）利润分配(iii)  Proﬁt appropriation27,292,89180,1191. 提取盈余公积1. Appropriation to surplus reserves2. 提取一般风险准备2. Appropriation to generalreserves七、综合收益总额7. TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME398,745,96368,034,118本年年末余额Closing balance5,500,000,00017,337,0492,191,618138,385,488849,267,920548,490,0647,055,672,139后附财务报表附注为本财务报表的组成部分
The accompanying notes to ﬁnancial statements form an integral part of these ﬁnancial statements.后附财务报表附注为本财务报表的组成部分
The accompanying notes to ﬁnancial statements form an integral part of these ﬁnancial statements.9495现金流量表
Statement of Cash Flows2021 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2021
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)一、经营活动产生的现金流量1. CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES二、投资活动产生 /( 使用 ) 的现金流量 2. CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES存放中央银行款项净减少额Net decrease in due from the Central Bank674,300,706725,142,086收回投资收到的现金Cash received from maturity of investments5,222,486,00020,970,000,000附注七
Notes 720212020附注七
Notes 720212020存放同业款项净减少额Net decrease in due from banks and other ﬁnancial institutions22,320,16940,114,677取得投资收益收到的现金Cash received from investment income427,972,164310,357,786拆出资金净减少额Net decrease in placements with banks and other ﬁnancial 
institutions1,455,220,768552,912,895处置固定资产和其他长期资产收回
的现金Proceeds from disposal of ﬁxed assets and other long term 
assets255,133734,193吸收存款和同业及其他金融机构存
放款项净增加额Net increase in customer deposits and due to banks and other 
ﬁnancial institutions5,583,605,731-投资活动现金流入小计Sub-total of cash inﬂows from investing activities5,650,713,29721,281,091,979拆入资金净增加额Net increase in placements from banks and other ﬁnancial 
institutions-3,408,030,734收取的利息、手续费及佣金的现金 Cash received from interest, service fee and commission2,074,655,2442,193,047,747为交易目的而持有的金融资产净减
少额Net decrease in ﬁnancial assets at fair value through proﬁt or 
loss-55,250,967投资所支付的现金Cash paid for investment5,090,000,00021,902,000,000购建固定资产和其他长期资产支付
的现金Cash paid for purchase of ﬁxed assets and other long term 
assets41,548,88215,664,635投资活动现金流出小计Sub-total of cash outﬂows from investing activities5,131,548,88221,917,664,635投资活动产生 /( 使用 ) 的现金流量净额 Net cash ﬂows from investing activities519,164,415(636,572,656)收到其他与经营活动有关的现金Cash received from other operating activities634,448,579204,972,026三、筹资活动使用的现金流量3. CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES经营活动现金流入小计Sub-total of cash inﬂows from operating activities10,444,551,1977,179,471,132发行债券收到的现金Cash received from debt securities issuance709,187,530489,914,000吸收存款和同业及其他金融机构存
放款项净减少额Net decrease in customer deposits and due to banks and 
other ﬁnancial institutions拆入资金净减少额Net decrease in placements from banks and other ﬁnancial 
institutions-1,861,816,239636,276,831-发放贷款和垫款净增加额Net increase in loans and advances to customers3,012,966,8121,313,655,484支付的利息、手续费及佣金的现金 Payments made for interest, service fee and commission952,474,6371,181,054,816支付给职工及为职工支付的现金Cash paid to and on behalf of employees支付的各项税费Cash paid for all types of taxes648,216,975694,113,692211,789,012181,006,885筹资活动现金流入小计Sub-total of cash inﬂows from ﬁnancing activities709,187,530489,914,000偿还债务支付的现金Cash repayments for debts分配股利、利润或偿付利息支付的
现金Cash payments for distribution of dividends or proﬁt and 
interest expenses1,000,000,0001,220,000,00097,300,00097,300,000支付其他与筹资活动有关的现金Cash paid to other ﬁnancing activities67,160,79181,911,894筹资活动现金流出小计Sub-total of cash outﬂows from ﬁnancing activities1,164,460,7911,399,211,894筹资活动使用的现金流量净额Net cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities四、汇率变动对现金及现金等价物的4. EFFECT OF EXCHANGE RATE CHANGES ON CASH ANDCASH EQUIVALENTS(455,273,261)(909,297,894)79,490,69762,428,079为交易目的而持有的金融资产
净增加额Net increase  in ﬁnancial assets at fair value through proﬁt or 
loss743,690,638-影响支付其他与经营活动有关的现金Cash paid for other operating activities274,859,508852,331,844经营活动现金流出小计Sub-total of cash outﬂows from operating activities6,480,274,4136,083,978,960经营活动产生的现金流量净额Net cash ﬂows from operating activities403,964,276,7841,095,492,172五、现金及现金等价物净增加 /( 减少 ) 额5. NET INCREASE / (DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASHEQUIVALENTS404,107,658,635(387,950,299)加：年初现金及现金等价物余额Add: Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year10,580,136,97310,968,087,272六、年末现金及现金等价物余额6. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF THE YEAR4114,687,795,60810,580,136,973后附财务报表附注为本财务报表的组成部分
The accompanying notes to ﬁnancial statements form an integral part of these ﬁnancial statements.后附财务报表附注为本财务报表的组成部分
The accompanying notes to ﬁnancial statements form an integral part of these ﬁnancial statements.9697财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2021 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2021
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)一、公司的基本情况1. Corporate Information二、编制基础2. Preparation Basis of the Financial Statements大华银行（中国）有限公司（以下简称“本公司”或“大华银行（中
国）”）是由大华银行有限公司（以下简称“大华银行”）在中华人
民共和国上海市成立的外商独资银行。United Overseas Bank (China) Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as The Bank 
or UOB (China)) is a wholly foreign-owned bank established in Shanghai, 
People's Republic of China (PRC), by United Overseas Bank (UOB).经中国银行保险监督管理委员会（以下简称“银保监会”）于 2007 年
4 月 5 日批准，大华银行按《中华人民共和国外资银行管理条例》（以
下简称“《管理条例》”）、《中华人民共和国外资银行管理条例实
施细则》（以下简称“《实施细则》”）的有关规定，在上海市筹建
由其单独出资的外商独资银行——大华银行（中国）有限公司，并
将其中国境内的大华银行上海分行、北京分行、深圳分行、广州分行、
厦门分行、成都分行、沈阳分行及上海静安支行（以下简称“原中国
区分行及支行”）改制为大华银行（中国）的分支机构。本 公 司 持 有 银 保 监 会 颁 发 的 金 融 许 可 证， 机 构 编 码 为：
B0308H231000001 号，持有上海市工商行政管理局核准颁发的企业法
人营业执照，统一社会信用代码为：913100006694147236。注册地址
为中国（上海）自由贸易试验区银城路 116 号、128 号大华银行大厦
三层、五层 501 室（实际四层）、十三层（实际十二层）、十五层
（实际十三层）、十六层（实际十四层）、十七层（实际十五层）、
十八层（实际十六层）、十九层（实际十七层）、二十层（实际十八层）。
注册资本为人民币 55 亿元。根据本公司营业执照的规定，本公司经营期限为不约定期限。本公
司主要从事经有关监管机构批准的外汇业务和人民币业务。2008 年
1 月 2 日为本公司与原中国区分行的业务切换日。截至 2021 年 12 月 31 日，除在上海设立的大华银行（中国）有限公司
总行外，本公司已在上海、北京、深圳、广州、厦门、成都、沈阳、
天津、杭州、重庆、苏州、昆明与中山设立了 13 家分行及 3 家支行。In accordance with the Regulation of the PRC on the Administration 
of Foreign-funded Banks (the Regulation), and the Detailed Rules on 
the Implementation of Regulation of the PRC on the Administration of 
Foreign-funded Banks (the Implementation), China Banking and Insurance 
Regulatory Committee (CBIRC) granted approval to UOB on 5 April 2007 
to set up a wholly-owned subsidiary bank, UOB (China), in Shanghai 
by converting its Shanghai Branch, Beijing Branch, Shenzhen Branch, 
Guangzhou Branch, Xiamen Branch, Chengdu Branch,  Shenyang Branch 
and Jing'an sub-branch (collectively known as the Former PRC Branches).The Bank obtained the licence for conducting ﬁnancial transaction from 
the CBIRC (Institution Code: B0308H231000001), and obtained its business 
licence (Uniform Social Credit Code: 913100006694147236) from Shanghai 
Administration for Industry and Commerce. The registered address is Floor 
3, Room 501 of Floor 5 (Actual Floor 4), Floor 13 (Actual Floor 12), Floor 15 
(Actual Floor 13), Floor 16 (Actual Floor 14), Floor 17 (Actual Floor 15), Floor 
18 (Actual Floor 16), Floor 19 (Actual Floor 17) and Floor 20 (Actual Floor 
18), No 116 and 128 Yincheng Road, China (Shanghai) Pilot Free Trade Zone. 
The registered capital of the Bank is RMB5.5 billion.The Bank obtained its business licence issued with an unlimited operating 
period.  The  main  businesses  of  the  Bank  are  Renminbi  and  foreign 
currency businesses as approved by relevant regulatory authorities. The 
date of business conversion from former PRC branches to UOB (China) 
was on 2 January 2008.As of 31 December 2021, besides the Head Ofﬁce incorporated in Shanghai, 
the Bank has set up 13 branches and three sub-branches respectively in 
Shanghai, Beijing, Shenzhen, Guangzhou, Xiamen, Chengdu, Shenyang, 
Tianjin, Hangzhou, Chongqing, Suzhou, Kunming and Zhongshan.98本财务报表按照中华人民共和国财政部（以下简称“财政部”）颁布
的《企业会计准则——基本准则》以及其后颁布及修订的具体会计
准则、应用指南、解释以及其他相关规定（统称“企业会计准则”）
编制。本财务报表以持续经营为基础列报。编制本财务报表时，除某些金融工具外，均以历史成本为计价原则。
资产如果发生减值，则按照相关规定计提相应的减值准备。三、遵循企业会计准则的声明本财务报表符合企业会计准则的要求，真实、完整地反映了本公司
2021 年 12 月 31 日的财务状况以及 2021 年度的经营成果和现金流量。四、重要会计政策和会计估计1. 会计期间本公司的会计年度采用公历年度，即每年自 1 月 1 日起至 12 月 31
日止。2. 记账本位币本公司的记账本位币和编制本财务报表所采用的货币均为人民币。
除有特别说明外，均以人民币元为单位列示。The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the 
Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises-Basic Standard and the 
specific standards, the implementation guidance, interpretations and 
other relevant provisions issued and revised subsequently by the Ministry 
of Finance of PRC (MOF) (collectively referred to as "Accounting Standards 
for Business Enterprises").The ﬁnancial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.The Bank's financial statements have been prepared on an accrual basis 
under the historical cost as the basis of measurement, except for some 
ﬁnancial instruments. If the assets are impaired, corresponding provisions 
should be recognised in accordance with relevant standards.3. Compliance with the Accounting Standards for BusinessEnterprisesThe ﬁnancial statements of the Bank have been prepared in accordance 
with the Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises, and present fairly 
and fully, the ﬁnancial position of the Bank as of 31 December 2021 and 
the ﬁnancial performance and the cash ﬂows for the year then ended.4. Signiﬁcant Accounting Policies and Estimates(1)  Accounting periodThe accounting year of the Bank is from 1 January to 31 December of 
each calendar year.3. 现金及现金等价物(2) Functional currency现金，是指本公司的库存现金以及可以随时用于支付的存款；现
金等价物，是指本公司持有的期限短、流动性强、易于转换为已
知金额的现金、价值变动风险很小的投资。现金等价物包括原到期日不超过三个月的存放中央银行的非限定
性款项、存放同业及其他金融机构款项、拆放同业及其他金融机
构款项、买入返售款项，以及变现能力强、易于转换为可知数额
的现金、价值变动风险小，而且由购买日起三个月内到期的债券
投资。The Bank's functional currency is Renminbi (RMB). These financial 
statements are presented in RMB and all amounts are stated in RMB, 
unless otherwise stated.(3)  Cash and cash equivalentsCash comprises cash on hand and demand deposits; cash equivalents 
are short-term, highly liquid investments which are readily convertible 
to known amounts of cash, and which are subject to insigniﬁcant risk 
of changes in value.Cash equivalents comprise non-statutory deposits due from Central 
Bank, amounts due from banks and other ﬁnancial institutions, reverse 
repurchase agreements maturing within three months, and short-
term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible into known 
amounts of cash, and which are subject to an insignificant risk of 
changes in value, which have an original maturity date within three 
months.99本公司对于发生的外币交易，将外币金额折算为记账本位币金额。外币交易在初始确认时，采用交易发生日的即期汇率将外币金额
折算为记账本位币金额。于资产负债表日，对于外币货币性项目
采用资产负债表日即期汇率折算，由此产生的结算和货币性项目
折算差额计入当期损益。以历史成本计量的外币非货币性项目，
仍采用交易发生日的即期汇率折算，不改变其记账本位币金额。
以公允价值计量的外币非货币性项目，采用公允价值确定日的即
期汇率折算，由此产生的差额根据非货币性项目的性质计入当期
损益或其他综合收益。5. 固定资产固定资产仅在与其有关的经济利益很可能流入本公司，且其成本
能够可靠地计量时才予以确认。与固定资产有关的后续支出，符
合该确认条件的，计入固定资产成本，并终止确认被替换部分的
账面价值；否则，在发生时计入当期损益。固定资产按照成本进行初始计量。购置固定资产的成本包括购买
价款、相关税费、使固定资产达到预定可使用状态前所发生的可
直接归属于该项资产的其他支出。固定资产的折旧采用年限平均
法计提，各类固定资产的使用寿命、预计净残值率及年折旧率如下：Foreign currency transactions are translated using the exchange rates 
ruling  at  the  transaction  date.  Subsequent  to  initial  recognition, 
monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are 
translated at the applicable exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet 
date. Exchange differences arising from the settlement of monetary 
items or from translation of monetary items at balance sheet date 
are recognised in the proﬁt or loss. Non-monetary items measured at 
historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange 
rates ruling at the dates of the initial transactions; Non-monetary 
items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using 
the exchange rates when the fair value is determined, the exchange 
difference thus resulted is recognised in the profit or loss or other 
comprehensive income of the current period.(5)  Fixed assetsThe ﬁxed assets can be recognised only when the economic beneﬁts 
related to ﬁxed assets are likely to ﬂow into the Bank, and the cost of 
ﬁxed assets can be measured reliably. Subsequent expenditure can be 
recognised as the cost of ﬁxed assets when the recognition criteria set 
above is met, and the replaced carrying amount shall be derecognised. 
Otherwise, such expenditure is to be charged to the proﬁt or loss in 
the period when it is incurred.Fixed assets are initially measured at cost. The cost of a purchased 
fixed asset comprises the purchase price, relevant taxes and any 
directly attributable expenditure for bringing the asset to working 
condition for its intended use. Depreciation is charged to profit or 
loss on a straight-line basis. And the respective estimated useful lives, 
estimated residual values and annual depreciation rates of ﬁxed assets 
are set by the Bank considering the nature and usage of ﬁxed assets.在建工程在达到预定可使用状态时转入固定资产、无形资产或其
他长期资产。7. 无形资产The cost of construction in progress is determined according to 
the actual expenditure for the construction, including all necessary 
expenditure  and  other  related  expenses  incurred  during  the 
construction period.The costs are transferred to fixed assets, intangible assets or other 
long term assets when the asset is ready for its intended use.无形资产仅在与其有关的经济利益很可能流入本公司，且其成本
能够可靠地计量时才予以确认，并以成本进行初始计量。(7) Intangible assets无形资产按照其能为本公司带来经济利益的期限确定使用寿命，
无法预见其为本公司带来经济利益期限的作为使用寿命不确定的
无形资产。本公司的无形资产为软件，其使用年限为 2 至 10 年。使用寿命有限的无形资产，在其使用寿命内采用直线法摊销。本
公司至少于每年年度终了，对使用寿命有限的无形资产的使用寿
命及摊销方法进行复核，必要时进行调整。8. 长期待摊费用长期待摊费用采用直线法摊销。长期待摊费用根据合同或协议与受益期限孰短原则确定摊销期限，
并平均摊销。The intangible assets can be recognised only when the economic 
beneﬁts related to intangible assets are likely to ﬂow into the Bank, 
and the cost of intangible assets can be measured reliably.The useful life of intangible assets is determined according to the 
economic useful lives; those intangible assets with unforeseeable 
economic lives can be classiﬁed as intangible assets with inﬁnite useful 
lives.The Bank's intangible assets comprise computer software with 2-10 
years' useful lives.For  the  intangible  assets  with  finite  useful  lives,  amortisation  is 
charged to profit or loss on a straight line basis. The useful life and 
amortisation method for intangible assets with ﬁnite useful lives are 
reviewed at each end of the year, with proper adjustments made by 
the Bank when necessary.如果长期摊销的费用项目不能使以后会计期间受益的，将尚未摊
销的项目的摊余价值全部转入当期损益。(8) Long-term deferred expensesLong-term  deferred  expenses  are  amortised  by  the  straight  line 
method.Long-term deferred expenses are amortised on a straight-line basis 
over the shorter of lease period and useful life.The carrying amount that has not been amortised is charged to proﬁt 
or loss if the expenditure does not bring benefits to subsequent 
accounting periods.财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2021 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2021
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)4. 外币折算(4)  Foreign currency transactions6. 在建工程(6) Construction in progressTransactions in foreign currencies are translated into the reporting 
currency accordingly.在建工程成本按实际工程支出确定，包括在建期间发生的各项必
要工程支出以及其他相关费用等。房屋及建筑物运输设备办公设备电脑设备家具Properties and buildings
Motor vehicles 
Ofﬁce equipment
Computers
Furniture使用寿命
Estimated useful lives
50 年
5 年
5 年
3 年
10 年预计净残值率
Estimated residual value
-
-
-
-
-年折旧率
Annual depreciation rate
2%
20%
20%
33%
10%本公司至少于每年年度终了，对固定资产的使用寿命、预计净残
值和折旧方法进行复核，必要时进行调整。Residual values, useful lives and depreciation methods are reviewed 
and adjusted if appropriate, at each end of the year.100101财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2021 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2021
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)9. 金融工具(9) Financial instruments金融资产分类和计量Classiﬁcation and measurement of ﬁnancial assets金融工具，是指形成一个企业的金融资产，并形成其他单位的金
融负债或权益工具的合同。A ﬁnancial instrument is any contract that gives rise to a ﬁnancial asset 
of one entity and a ﬁnancial liability or equity instrument of another 
entity.金融工具的确认和终止确认本公司于成为金融工具合同的一方时确认一项金融资产或金融
负债。满足下列条件的，终止确认金融资产 ( 或金融资产的一部分，或一
组类似金融资产的一部分 )，即从其账户和资产负债表内予以转销：（1）收取金融资产现金流量的权利届满；（2）转移了收取金融资产现金流量的权利，或在“过手协议”下承
担了及时将收取的现金流量全额支付给第三方的义务；并且
(a) 实质上转让了金融资产所有权上几乎所有的风险和报酬，
或 (b) 虽然实质上既没有转移也没有保留金融资产所有权上
几乎所有的风险和报酬，但放弃了对该金融资产的控制。如果金融负债的责任已履行、撤销或届满，则对金融负债进行终
止确认。如果现有金融负债被同一债权人以实质上几乎完全不同
条款的另一金融负债所取代，或现有负债的条款几乎全部被实质
性修改，则此类替换或修改作为终止确认原负债和确认新负债处
理，差额计入当期损益。以常规方式买卖金融资产，按交易日会计进行确认和终止确认。
常规方式买卖金融资产，是指按照合同条款的约定，在法规或通
行惯例规定的期限内收取或交付金融资产。交易日，是指本公司
承诺买入或卖出金融资产的日期。Recognition and derecognition of ﬁnancial instrumentA financial asset or a financial liability is recognised when the Bank 
becomes  a  party  to  the  contractual  provisions  of  the  financial 
instrument.A ﬁnancial asset (or, where applicable, a part of a ﬁnancial asset or part 
of a group of similar financial assets) is primarily derecognised (i.e., 
removed from the Bank's balance sheet) when:(i)   The  rights  to  receive  cash  flows  from  the  financial  asset  haveexpired;(ii)  The Bank has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the 
financial asset, or has assumed an obligation to pay the received 
cash flows in full without material delay to a third party under 
a  "pass-through"  arrangement;  and  either  (a)  has  transferred 
substantially all the risks and rewards of the ﬁnancial asset, or (b) 
has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and 
rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the financial 
asset.A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the 
liability is discharged, cancelled, or expires. When an existing ﬁnancial 
liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially 
different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially 
modiﬁed, such an exchange or modiﬁcation is treated as a derecognition 
of the original liability and a recognition of a new liability, and the 
difference between the respective carrying amounts is recognised in 
proﬁt or loss.A regular way purchases or sales of ﬁnancial assets are recognised and 
derecognised, as applicable, using trade date accounting. A regular 
way purchase or sale of ﬁnancial assets represents a purchase or sale 
of a financial asset under a contract whose terms require delivery of 
the asset within the time frame established generally by regulation or 
convention in the marketplace concerned. The trade date is the date 
that the Bank committed to purchase or sell a ﬁnancial asset.本公司的金融资产于初始确认时根据本公司企业管理金融资产的
业务模式和金融资产的合同现金流量特征分类为：以公允价值计
量且其变动计入当期损益的金融资产、以摊余成本计量的金融资
产、以公允价值计量且其变动计入其他综合收益的金融资产。当
且仅当本公司改变管理金融资产的业务模式时，才对所有受影响
的相关金融资产进行重分类。对于以公允价值计量且其变动计入当期损益的金融资产，相关交
易费用直接计入当期损益，其他类别的金融资产相关交易费用计
入其初始确认金额。金融资产的后续计量取决于其分类：以摊余成本计量的债务工具投资金融资产同时符合下列条件的，分类为以摊余成本计量的金融资
产：管理该金融资产的业务模式是以收取合同现金流量为目标；
该金融资产的合同条款规定，在特定日期产生的现金流量仅为对
本金和以未偿付本金金额为基础的利息的支付。此类金融资产采
用实际利率法确认利息收入，其终止确认、修改或减值产生的利
得或损失，均计入当期损益。以公允价值计量且其变动计入其他综合收益的债务工具投资金融资产同时符合下列条件的，分类为以公允价值计量且其变动
计入其他综合收益的金融资产：本公司管理该金融资产的业务模
式是既以收取合同现金流量为目标又以出售金融资产为目标；该
金融资产的合同条款规定，在特定日期产生的现金流量仅为对本
金和以未偿付本金金额为基础的利息的支付。此类金融资产采用
实际利率法确认利息收入。除利息收入、减值损失及汇兑差额确
认为当期损益外，其余公允价值变动计入其他综合收益。当金融
资产终止确认时，之前计入其他综合收益的累计利得或损失从其
他综合收益转出，计入当期损益。Financial assets of the Bank are initially classified into three categories: 
financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, financial assets 
at amortised cost, and financial assets at fair value through other 
comprehensive income based on the Bank's business model for managing 
the ﬁnancial assets and their contractual cash ﬂow characteristics. The Bank 
reclassiﬁed the relating ﬁnancial assets if and only if the Bank changes the 
business model for managing the ﬁnancial assets.Underlying fee of ﬁnancial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss are 
directly recognised in proﬁt or loss, while those of other classiﬁcations 
are attributed to the acquisition of ﬁnancial assets.Subsequent  measurement  of  financial  assets  is  based  on  their 
classiﬁcation:Debt instrument investment at amortised costFinancial assets are classified into financial assets at amortised cost 
when both of the following conditions are satisﬁed: The business model 
is to collect contractual cash flows; the cash flows on specific date 
are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount 
outstanding according to the agreement of the financial assets. Their 
interest income is recognised using the effective interest rate method. 
Gains or losses arising from derecognition, modiﬁcation or impairment 
are recognised in proﬁt or loss.Debt instrument at fair value through other comprehensive incomeFinancial assets are classiﬁed into ﬁnancial assets at fair value through 
other comprehensive income when both of the following conditions 
are satisfied: The business model is to collect both the contractual 
cash flows and cash flows arising from the sale of assets; the cash 
ﬂows on speciﬁc date are solely payments of principal and interest on 
the principal amount outstanding according to the agreement of the 
ﬁnancial assets. Their interest income is recognised using the effective 
interest rate method. A gain or loss arising from a change in the fair 
value is recognised as other comprehensive income, except for interest 
income, credit impairment losses and foreign exchange gains or losses, 
which are recognised in profit or loss. The gain or loss recognised in 
other comprehensive income will be reversed and recognised in proﬁt 
or loss when the ﬁnancial assets are derecognised.102103财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2021 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2021
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)以公允价值计量且其变动计入当期损益的金融资产Financial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss金融工具减值Impairment of ﬁnancial instruments上述以摊余成本计量的金融资产和以公允价值计量且其变动计入
其他综合收益的金融资产之外的金融资产，分类为以公允价值计
量且其变动计入当期损益的金融资产。对于此类金融资产，采用
公允价值进行后续计量，所有公允价值变动计入当期损益。金融负债分类和计量本公司的金融负债于初始确认时分类为：以公允价值计量且其变
动计入当期损益的金融负债、其他金融负债。对于以公允价值计
量且其变动计入当期损益的金融负债，相关交易费用直接计入当
期损益，其他金融负债的相关交易费用计入其初始确认金额。金融负债的后续计量取决于其分类：以公允价值计量且其变动计入当期损益的金融负债以公允价值计量且其变动计入当期损益的金融负债，包括交易性
金融负债 ( 含属于金融负债的衍生工具 ) 和初始确认时指定为以公
允价值计量且其变动计入当期损益的金融负债。交易性金融负债（含属于金融负债的衍生工具），按照公允价值
进行后续计量，除与套期会计有关外，所有公允价值变动均计入
当期损益。对于指定为以公允价值计量且其变动计入当期损益的
金融负债，按照公允价值进行后续计量，除由本公司自身信用风
险变动引起的公允价值变动计入其他综合收益之外，其他公允价
值变动计入当期损益；如果由本公司自身信用风险变动引起的公
允价值变动计入其他综合收益会造成或扩大损益中的会计错配，
本公司将所有公允价值变动（包括自身信用风险变动的影响金额）
计入当期损益。其他金融负债对于此类金融负债，采用实际利率法，按照摊余成本进行后续计量。Other than the ﬁnancial assets at amortised cost and the ﬁnancial assets 
at fair value through other comprehensive income mentioned above, 
ﬁnancial assets are classiﬁed into ﬁnancial assets at fair value through 
profit or loss. Such financial assets are subsequently measured at fair 
value and the gain or loss arising from a change in the fair value will be 
recognised in proﬁt or loss.Classiﬁcation and measurement of ﬁnancial liabilitiesFinancial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities at fair 
value through profit or loss, or other financial liabilities. Underlying 
fee of ﬁnancial liabilities at fair value through proﬁt or loss are directly 
recognised in proﬁt or loss, while those of other ﬁnancial liabilities are 
attributed to the acquisition of ﬁnancial liabilities.Subsequent  measurement  of  financial  liabilities  is  based  on  their 
classiﬁcation:Financial liabilities at fair value through proﬁt or lossFinancial liabilities at fair value through proﬁt or loss include ﬁnancial 
liabilities held for trading (including derivatives that are liabilities) and 
financial liabilities designated upon initial recognition as at fair value 
through proﬁt or loss.Financial liabilities held for trading (including derivative instruments 
attributable to financial liabilities) are subsequently measured at fair 
value.  All changes in fair value of such ﬁnancial liabilities are recognised 
in  profit  or  loss  except  for  the  derivatives  designated  as  hedging 
instruments in an effective hedge. Financial liabilities designated at fair 
value through profit or loss are subsequently measured at fair value 
and gains or losses are recognised in proﬁt or loss, except for the gains 
or losses arising from the Bank's own credit risk which are presented in 
other comprehensive income. If gains or losses arising from the Bank's 
own credit risk which are presented in other comprehensive income will 
lead to or expand accounting mismatch in proﬁt or loss, the Bank will 
include all the changes in fair value (including the amount affected by 
changes in the Bank's own credit risk) of such ﬁnancial liabilities in proﬁt 
or loss.Other ﬁnancial liabilitiesSuch ﬁnancial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost 
using the effective interest rate method.104本公司以预期信用损失为基础，对以摊余成本计量的金融资产、
以公允价值计量且其变动计入其他综合收益的债务工具投资、贷
款承诺及财务担保合同进行减值处理并确认损失准备。对于不含重大融资成分的应收款项以及合同资产，本公司运用简
化计量方法，按照相当于整个存续期内的预期信用损失金额计量
损失准备。除上述采用简化计量方法以外的金融资产、贷款承诺及财务担保
合同，本公司在每个资产负债表日评估其信用风险自初始确认后
是否已经显著增加，如果信用风险自初始确认后未显著增加，处
于第一阶段，本公司按照相当于未来 12 个月内预期信用损失的金
额计量损失准备，并按照账面余额和实际利率计算利息收入；如
果信用风险自初始确认后已显著增加但尚未发生信用减值的，处
于第二阶段，本公司按照相当于整个存续期内预期信用损失的金
额计量损失准备，并按照账面余额和实际利率计算利息收入；如
果初始确认后发生信用减值的，处于第三阶段，本公司按照相当
于整个存续期内预期信用损失的金额计量损失准备，并按照摊余
成本和实际利率计算利息收入。本公司在每个资产负债表日评估相关金融工具的信用风险自初始
确认后是否已显著增加。本公司以单项金融工具或者具有相似信
用风险特征的金融工具组合为基础，通过比较金融工具在资产负
债表日发生违约的风险与在初始确认日发生违约的风险，以确定
金融工具预计存续期内发生违约风险的变化情况。对于资产负债
表日只具有较低信用风险的金融工具，本公司假设其信用风险自
初始确认后未显著增加。关于本公司对预期信用损失计量的假设等披露参见附注十一、1。当对金融资产预期未来现金流量具有不利影响的一项或多项事件
发生时，该金融资产成为已发生信用减值的金融资产。当本公司不再合理预期能够全部或部分收回金融资产合同现金流
量时，本公司直接减记该金融资产的账面余额。The  Bank  recognises  a  loss  for  impairment  of  financial  assets  at 
amortised  cost,  debt  instrument  measured  at  fair  through  other 
comprehensive income, loan commitments and financial guarantee 
contracts based on their expected credit loss.For  receivable  and  contract  assets  without  significant  financing 
components, the Bank uses the simplified approach to calculate the 
credit impairment loss, based on lifetime expected credit loss.Other  than  the  financial  assets,  loan  commitments  and  financial 
guarantee contracts using simplified approach, the Bank evaluates 
whether the credit risk has significantly increases since the initial 
recognition at each financial reporting date. When credit risk hasn't 
increased  significantly  since  the  initial  recognition,  the  financial 
instruments are included in Stage I. the Bank calculate impairment 
allowance  at  an  amount  equivalent  to  the  ECL  of  the  financial 
instruments for the next 12 months, recognise the interest income by 
using the carrying amount and effective interest rate. When credit risk 
has increased significantly since the initial recognition, but have no 
objective evidence of impairment, the ﬁnancial instruments are included 
in Stage II, the Bank calculate the impairment allowance at an amount 
equivalent to the ECL over the lifetime of the financial instruments, 
and  recognise  the  interest  income  by  using  carrying  amount  and 
effective interest rate. If the ﬁnancial assets have objective evidence of 
impairment, the ﬁnancial instruments are included in Stage III, the Bank 
calculates the impairment allowance at an amount equivalent to the 
ECL over the lifetime of the ﬁnancial instruments, and recognises the 
interest income by using amortised cost and effective interest rate.At each balance sheet date, the Bank assesses whether the credit risk 
on the relevant financial instruments has increased significantly since 
initial recognition. The Bank compares the risk of a default occurring 
of a single financial instrument or a group of financial instruments 
with similar credit risk characteristics as at the balance sheet date with 
the risk of a default as at the date of initial recognition, to determine 
changes in the risk of a default occurring of the ﬁnancial instrument in 
the expected lifetime. If the credit risk of ﬁnancial instruments is low 
at the balance sheet date, the Bank assumes that the credit risk has not 
increased signiﬁcantly since initial recognition.The disclosure related to the criterion for whether the credit risk has 
increased signiﬁcantly, the deﬁnition of the impaired ﬁnancial assets and the 
hypothesis of the measurement of expected credit loss refers to Note 11.1.When there are one or more events that have adverse effects on the expected 
future cash ﬂows of a ﬁnancial asset, the ﬁnancial asset is credit-impaired.When the Bank no longer reasonably expects to collect part or all of 
the contractual cash ﬂows, the Bank writes down the carrying amount 
of the ﬁnancial assets.105财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2021 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2021
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)金融工具抵销Offsetting of ﬁnancial instruments10. 买入返售和卖出回购交易(10) Repurchase and reverse repurchase transactions同时满足下列条件的，金融资产和金融负债以相互抵销后的净额
在资产负债表内列示：具有抵销已确认金额的法定权利，且该种
法定权利是当前可执行的；计划以净额结算，或同时变现该金融
资产和清偿该金融负债。Financial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities are offset and the net amount 
presented in the balance sheet when and only when the Bank currently 
has a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and 
intends either to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle 
the liability simultaneously.财务担保合同Financial guarantee contract财务担保合同，是指特定债务人到期不能按照债务工具条款偿付
债务时，发行方向蒙受损失的合同持有人赔付特定金额的合同。
财务担保合同在初始确认时按照公允价值计量，财务担保合同在
初始确认后按照资产负债表日确定的预期信用损失准备金额和初
始确认金额扣除按照收入确认原则确定的累计摊销额后的余额两
者孰高者进行后续计量。衍生金融工具本公司使用衍生金融工具，衍生金融工具初始以衍生交易合同签
订当日的公允价值进行计量，并以其公允价值进行后续计量。公
允价值为正数的衍生金融工具确认为一项资产，公允价值为负数
的确认为一项负债。除与套期会计有关外，衍生工具公允价值变动产生的利得或损失
直接计入当期损益。金融资产转移Financial guarantee contracts are those contracts that require issuer 
to  make  specified  payments  to  reimburse  the  holder  for  a  loss  it 
incurs because a speciﬁed debtor fails to make payment when due in 
accordance with the original or modiﬁed terms of a debt instrument. 
Financial guarantee contracts are measured, on initial recognition, 
at fair value. After initial recognition, financial guarantee contracts 
are subsequently measured at the higher of, (i) the expected credit 
impairment loss determined on financial reporting date and (ii) the 
amount initially recognised less, when appropriate, the cumulative 
amount of income recognised in accordance with the revenue principle.Derivative ﬁnancial instrumentsThe Bank uses derivative ﬁnancial instruments. Such derivative ﬁnancial 
instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which 
a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently measured at 
fair value. Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive 
and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.本公司已将金融资产所有权上几乎所有的风险和报酬转移给转入
方的，终止确认该金融资产；保留了金融资产所有权上几乎所有
的风险和报酬的，不终止确认该金融资产。Any proﬁt or loss arising from changes in fair value of derivatives are 
taken directly in proﬁt or loss, except for those related to the hedge 
accounting.本公司既没有转移也没有保留金融资产所有权上几乎所有的风险
和报酬的，分别下列情况处理：放弃了对该金融资产控制的，终
止确认该金融资产并确认产生的资产和负债；未放弃对该金融资
产控制的，按照其继续涉入所转移金融资产的程度确认有关金融
资产，并相应确认有关负债。通过对所转移金融资产提供财务担保方式继续涉入的，按照金融
资产的账面价值和财务担保金额两者之中的较低者，确认继续涉
入形成的资产。财务担保金额，是指所收到的对价中，将被要求
偿还的最高金额。Transfer of ﬁnancial assetsA  financial  asset  is  derecognised  when  the  Bank  has  transferred 
substantially all the risks and rewards of the financial asset to the 
transferee. A ﬁnancial asset is not derecognised when the Bank retains 
substantially all the risks and rewards of the ﬁnancial asset.When the Bank has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the 
risks and rewards of the ﬁnancial asset, it either (i) derecognises the ﬁnancial 
asset and recognises the assets and liabilities created in the transfer when 
it has not retained control of the asset; or (ii) continues to recognise the 
transferred asset to the extent of the Bank's continuing involvement, in 
which case, the Bank also recognises an associated liability.Continuing involvement that takes the form of a guarantee over the 
transferred financial asset is measured at the lower of the original 
carrying amount of the ﬁnancial asset and the guarantee amount. The 
guarantee amount is the maximum amount of consideration that the 
Bank could be required to repay.按回购合约出售的有价证券和票据（“卖出回购”）不予终止确认，
视具体情况在相应资产项目中列示，对交易对手的债务在“卖出
回购金融资产款”中列示。按返售合约买入的有价证券和票据（“买
入返售”）不予以确认，对交易对手的债权在“买入返售金融资产”
中列示。出售和回购及买入和返售间的价差采用实际利率法在合约有效期
内计入利润表中的利息支出或利息收入。11.  贵金属贵金属主要包括黄金和白银。为交易目的而获得的贵金属按照取
得时的公允价值进行初始确认，并以公允价值进行后续计量，相
关变动计入当期损益。12. 资产减值Securities and bills sold subject to repurchase agreements ("Repos") 
continue to be recognised, and are recorded as ﬁnancial investments. 
The corresponding obligation is included in "Repurchase agreements". 
Securities and bills purchased under agreements to re-sell ("Reverse 
repos") are not recognised. The receivables are recorded as "Reverse 
repurchase ﬁnancial assets", as appropriate.The difference between purchase and sale price is recognised as 
interest expense or interest income in the proﬁt or loss over the life 
of the agreements using the effective interest method.(11) Precious metalsPrecious metals comprise gold and silver. Precious metals acquired by 
the Bank for trading purposes are initially measured at fair value and 
subsequent changes in fair value are recorded in the proﬁt or loss.本公司对除金融资产和递延所得税资产外的资产减值，按以下方
法确定：(12) Impairment of assets本公司于资产负债表日判断资产是否存在可能发生减值的迹象，
存在减值迹象的，本公司将估计其可收回金额，进行减值测试。
对使用寿命不确定的无形资产，无论是否存在减值迹象，至少于
每年末进行减值测试。对于尚未达到可使用状态的无形资产，也
每年进行减值测试。可收回金额根据资产的公允价值减去处置费用后的净额与资产预
计未来现金流量的现值两者之间较高者确定。本公司以单项资产
为基础估计其可收回金额。当资产的可收回金额低于其账面价值时，本公司将其账面价值减
记至可收回金额，减记的金额计入当期损益，同时计提相应的资
产减值准备。上述资产减值损失一经确认，在以后会计期间不再转回。The Bank assesses impairment of assets as follows, except for ﬁnancial 
assets and deferred tax assets:The Bank assesses whether there is an indication that an asset is 
impaired at each ﬁnancial reporting date. If any such indication exists, 
the Bank makes an estimate of the asset's recoverable amount and 
carries out impairment test. For those assets with infinite useful 
lives, regardless of whether the impairment indications exist, the 
impairment test is made at least annually. For intangible assets that 
have not yet reached their intended use status are also conducted 
annual impairment test.An asset's recoverable amount is the higher of its fair value less costs 
to sell and the present value of estimated future discounted cash 
ﬂows, which is determined on an individual basis.If the recoverable amount of the asset is less than its carrying value, 
an impairment loss is recognised immediately in proﬁt or loss and the 
carrying value of the asset reduced by the amount of the loss.Once an impairment loss is recognised, it shall not be reversed in the 
subsequent period.106107财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2021 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2021
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)13. 预计负债(13)  Provisions除了非同一控制下企业合并中的或有对价及承担的或有负债之
外，当与或有事项相关的义务同时符合以下条件，本公司将其确
认为预计负债：(i)  该义务是本公司承担的现时义务；
(ii)  该义务的履行很可能导致经济利益流出本公司；
(iii)  该义务的金额能够可靠地计量。预计负债按照履行相关现时义务所需支出的最佳估计数进行初始
计量，并综合考虑与或有事项有关的风险、不确定性和货币时间
价值等因素。每个资产负债表日对预计负债的账面价值进行复核。
有确凿证据表明该账面价值不能反映当前最佳估计数的，按照当
前最佳估计数对该账面价值进行调整。14. 收入及支出确认原则和方法利息收入和利息支出An obligation related to a contingency is recognised as provision 
when  all  of  the  following  conditions  are  satisfied  (except  for 
contingent liability recognised in a business combination not under 
common control):the obligation is a present obligation of the Bank;
it is probable that an outﬂow of economic beneﬁts will be  
required to settle the obligation; and(i) 
(ii) 
 
(iii)  the amount of the obligation can be measured reliably.The provision is initially measured at the best estimate of the expenditure 
required to settle the related present obligation. Factors pertaining to a 
contingency such as the risks, uncertainties and time value of money are 
taken into account as a whole in reaching the best estimate. The Bank 
reviews the carrying amount of a provision at the balance sheet date. 
The carrying amount of a provision will be adjusted when there is clear 
evidence that the amount does not reﬂect the current best estimate.本公司利润表中的“利息收入”和“利息支出”，为按实际利率法确
认的以摊余成本计量及以公允价值计量且其变动计入其他综合收
益的金融资产和以摊余成本计量的金融负债产生的利息收入与支
出。实际利率法，是指计算金融资产或金融负债的摊余成本以及将各
期利息收入或利息支出分摊计入各会计期间的方法。实际利率，
是指将金融资产或金融负债在预计存续期间的估计未来现金流
量，折现为该金融资产或金融负债当前账面价值所使用的利率。
在确定实际利率时，本公司在考虑金融资产或金融负债所有合同
条款的基础上估计未来现金流量，但不考虑预期信用损失。本公
司支付或收取的、属于实际利率组成部分的各项收费、交易费用
及溢价或折价等，在确定实际利率时予以考虑。对于购入或源生的已发生信用减值的金融资产，本公司自初始确
认起，按照该金融资产的摊余成本和经信用调整的实际利率计算
确定其利息收入。经信用调整的实际利率，是指将购入或源生的
已发生信用减值的金融资产在预计存续期的估计未来现金流量，
折现为该金融资产摊余成本的利率。(14) Recognition of income and expenseInterest income and expense"Interest income" and "interest expense" item in the income statement 
of the Bank are the interest income and expense calculated by using 
the effective interest method on ﬁnancial assets at amortised cost, 
ﬁnancial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income and 
ﬁnancial liabilities at amortised cost.The  effective  interest  method  is  used  in  the  calculation  of  the 
amortised cost of a financial asset or a financial liability and in the 
allocation and recognition of the interest income or interest expense 
in proﬁt or loss over the relevant period. The effective interest rate 
is that exactly discounts estimated future cash flows through the 
expected life of a financial asset or financial liability to the gross 
carrying  amount  of  a  financial  asset  or  the  amortised  cost  of  a 
financial liability. When calculating the effective interest rate, the 
Bank estimates the expected cash ﬂows by considering all contractual 
terms of the financial instrument but does not consider expected 
credit losses. The calculation includes all amounts paid or received 
by the Bank that are an integral part of the effective interest rate, 
transaction costs and all other premiums or discounts.For those purchased or originated credit-impaired ﬁnancial assets, the 
Bank calculates the interest income by applying the credit-adjusted 
effective interest rate to the amortised cost of the financial asset 
from initial recognition. The credit-adjusted effective interest rate is 
that exactly discounts the estimated future cash flows through the 
expected life of the ﬁnancial asset to the amortised cost of a ﬁnancial 
asset that is a purchased or originated credit-impaired ﬁnancial asset.对于购入或源生的未发生信用减值、但在后续期间成为已发生信
用减值的金融资产，本公司在后续期间，按照该金融资产的摊余
成本和实际利率计算确定其利息收入。手续费及佣金收入本公司通过向客户提供各类服务收取手续费及佣金。其中，通过
在一定期间内提供服务收取的手续费及佣金在相应期间内按照履
约进度确认，其他手续费及佣金于相关交易完成时确认。15. 租赁租赁的识别For those ﬁnancial assets that are not purchased or originated credit-
impaired financial assets but subsequently have  become credit-
impaired financial assets, the Bank calculates the interest income 
by applying the effective interest rate to the amortised cost of the 
ﬁnancial asset in subsequent reporting periods.Fee and commission incomeThe Bank earns fee and commission income from a diverse range 
of  services  it  provides  to  its  customers.  For  those  services  that 
are provided over a period of time, fee and commission income 
is  accrued  in  accordance  with  the  terms  and  conditions  of  the 
service agreement. For other services, fee and commission income is 
recognised when the transactions are completed.在合同开始日，本公司评估合同是否为租赁或者包含租赁，如果
合同中一方让渡了在一定期间内控制一项或多项已识别资产使用
的权利以换取对价，则该合同为租赁或者包含租赁。为确定合同
是否让渡了在一定期间内控制已识别资产使用的权利，本公司评
估合同中的客户是否有权获得在使用期间内因使用已识别资产所
产生的几乎全部经济利益，并有权在该使用期间主导已识别资产
的使用。单独租赁的识别合同中同时包含多项单独租赁的，本公司将合同予以分拆，并分
别各项单独租赁进行会计处理。同时符合下列条件的，使用已识
别资产的权利构成合同中的一项单独租赁：(15) LeasesIdentiﬁcation of leasesAt inception of a contract, the Bank assesses whether the contract is, 
or contains, a lease.  A contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract 
conveys the right to control the use of one or more identiﬁed assets 
for a period of time in exchange for consideration. To assess whether 
a contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified 
asset for a period of time, the Bank assesses whether, throughout 
the period of use, the customer has both of the right to obtain 
substantially all of the economic beneﬁts from use of the identiﬁed 
asset and the right to direct the use of the identiﬁed asset.（1）承租人可从单独使用该资产或将其与易于获得的其他资源一Identiﬁcation of separate lease components起使用中获利；（2）该资产与合同中的其他资产不存在高度依赖或高度关联关系。租赁和非租赁部分的分拆合同中同时包含租赁和非租赁部分的，本公司作为承租人时，对
于运输工具类租赁资产不进行分拆，将各租赁部分及与其相关的
非租赁部分分别合并为租赁进行处理，除以上类别租赁资产外，
本公司将租赁和非租赁部分分拆后进行会计处理。For a contract that contains multiple separate lease components, the 
Bank separates the components of the contract and accounts for each 
separate lease component.  The right to use an identiﬁed asset is a 
separate lease component if both:(i)  the lessee can beneﬁt from use of the underlying asset either on 
its own or together with other resources that are readily available 
to the lessee; and(ii)  the underlying asset is neither highly dependent on, nor highlyinterrelated with, the other underlying assets in the contract.Separating lease components and non-lease componentsThe Bank does not separate lease vehicles as a lessee and instead 
accounts for each lease component and any associated non-lease 
components  as  a  single  lease  component,  except  that  the  Bank 
accounts  for  the  lease  components  and  non-lease  components 
separately in addition to the underlying assets above.108109财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2021 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2021
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)租赁期的评估Assessment of the lease term租赁负债Lease liabilities租赁期是本公司有权使用租赁资产且不可撤销的期间。本公司有
续租选择权，即有权选择续租该资产，且合理确定将行使该选择
权的，租赁期还包含续租选择权涵盖的期间。本公司有终止租赁
选择权，即有权选择终止租赁该资产，但合理确定将不会行使该
选择权的，租赁期包含终止租赁选择权涵盖的期间。发生本公司
可控范围内的重大事件或变化，且影响本公司是否合理确定将行
使相应选择权的，本公司对其是否合理确定将行使续租选择权、
购买选择权或不行使终止租赁选择权进行重新评估。本公司作为承租人使用权资产本公司使用权资产类别主要包括房屋及建筑物、运输工具。在租赁期开始日，本公司将其可在租赁期内使用租赁资产的权利
确认为使用权资产，包括：（1）租赁负债的初始计量金额；（2）
在租赁期开始日或之前支付的租赁付款额，存在租赁激励的，扣
除已享受的租赁激励相关金额；（3）承租人发生的初始直接费用；
（4）承租人为拆卸及移除租赁资产、复原租赁资产所在场地或
将租赁资产恢复至租赁条款约定状态预计将发生的成本。本公司
后续采用年限平均法对使用权资产计提折旧。能够合理确定租赁
期届满时取得租赁资产所有权的，本公司在租赁资产剩余使用寿
命内计提折旧。无法合理确定租赁期届满时能够取得租赁资产所
有权的，本公司在租赁期与租赁资产剩余使用寿命两者孰短的期
间内计提折旧。本公司按照变动后的租赁付款额的现值重新计量租赁负债，并相
应调整使用权资产的账面价值时，如使用权资产账面价值已调减
至零，但租赁负债仍需进一步调减的，本公司将剩余金额计入当
期损益。The lease term is the non-cancellable period of a lease for which 
the Bank has the right to use an underlying asset.  If the Bank has an 
option to extend the lease, that is, the Bank has the right to extend 
the lease, and is reasonably certain to exercise that option, the lease 
term also includes periods covered by an option to extend the lease. 
If the Bank has an option to terminate the lease, that is, the Bank 
has the right to terminate the lease, but is reasonably certain not 
to exercise that option, the lease term includes periods covered by 
an option to terminate the lease. The Bank reassesses whether it is 
reasonably certain to exercise an extension option, purchase option, 
or not to exercise a termination option, upon the occurrence of 
either a signiﬁcant event or a signiﬁcant change in the circumstances 
that is within the control of the Bank and affects whether the Bank is 
reasonably certain to exercise an option not previously included in its 
determination of the lease term.As lesseeRight-of-use assetsThe right-of-use assets of the Bank mainly include buildings and 
vehicles.At the commencement date of the lease, the Bank recognises a right-
of-use asset. The cost of the right-of-use asset comprises: (i) the 
amount of the initial measurement of the lease liabilities; (ii) any lease 
payments made at or before the commencement date of the lease 
less any lease incentives received; (iii) any initial direct cost incurred; 
and (iv) an estimate of costs incurred by the lessee in dismantling 
and removing the underlying asset, restoring the site on which it is 
located or restoring the underlying asset to the condition required 
by the terms and conditions of the lease. The right-of-use assets are 
depreciated on a straight-line basis subsequently by the Bank. If the 
Bank is reasonably certain that the ownership of the underlying asset 
will be transferred to the Bank at the end of the lease term, the Bank 
depreciates the asset from the commencement date to the end of 
the useful life of the asset. Otherwise, the bank depreciates the assets 
from the commencement date to the earlier of the end of the useful 
life of the asset or the end of the lease term.The Bank remeasures the lease liabilities at the present value of the 
changed lease payments and adjusts the carrying amount of the right-
of-use assets accordingly, when the carrying amount of the right-
of-use asset is reduced to zero, and there is a further reduction in 
the measurement of the lease liabilities, the Bank recognises the 
remaining amount of the remeasurement in proﬁt or loss.在租赁期开始日，本公司将尚未支付的租赁付款额的现值确认为
租赁负债，短期租赁和低价值资产租赁除外。在计算租赁付款额
的现值时，本公司采用承租人增量借款利率作为折现率。本公司
按照固定的周期性利率计算租赁负债在租赁期内各期间的利息费
用，并计入当期损益，但另有规定计入相关资产成本的除外。未
纳入租赁负债计量的可变租赁付款额于实际发生时计入当期损
益，但另有规定计入相关资产成本的除外。租赁期开始日后，当实质固定付款额发生变动、担保余值预计的
应付金额发生变化、用于确定租赁付款额的指数或比率发生变动、
购买选择权、续租选择权或终止选择权的评估结果或实际行权情
况发生变化时，本公司按照变动后的租赁付款额的现值重新计量
租赁负债。租赁变更租赁变更是原合同条款之外的租赁范围、租赁对价、租赁期限的
变更，包括增加或终止一项或多项租赁资产的使用权，延长或缩
短合同规定的租赁期等。租赁发生变更且同时符合下列条件的，本公司将该租赁变更作为
一项单独租赁进行会计处理：（1）该租赁变更通过增加一项或多项租赁资产的使用权而扩大了租赁范围；（2）增加的对价与租赁范围扩大部分的单独价格按该合同情况调整后的金额相当。租赁变更未作为一项单独租赁进行会计处理的，在租赁变更生效
日，本公司重新确定租赁期，并采用修订后的折现率对变更后的
租赁付款额进行折现，以重新计量租赁负债。在计算变更后租赁
付款额的现值时，本公司采用租赁变更生效日的本公司增量借款
利率作为折现率。就上述租赁负债调整的影响，本公司相应调整使用权资产的账面
价值。At the commencement date of the lease, the Bank measures the lease 
liabilities at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid at 
that date, except for short-term leases and leases of low-value assets. 
In calculating the present value of the lease payments, the Bank uses 
the lessee's incremental borrowing rate. The Bank calculates the interest 
expenses of the lease liabilities in each period during the lease term 
using the constant periodic rate of interest, and recognises such interest 
expenses in profit or loss, except those in the costs of the related 
asset as required. Variable lease payments that are not included in the 
measurement of the lease liabilities are recognised in profit or loss as 
incurred, except those in the costs of the related asset as required.After the commencement date of the lease, if there is a change on 
actual ﬁxed payment, expected payable of guaranteed residual value, 
the index or rate used to calculate the lease payment, purchase 
option, the assessment of option to extend the lease, option to 
terminate the lease or actual option exercise situation, the bank 
will recalculate the lease liabilities at the present value of the lease 
payments based changes occurred.Lease modiﬁcationsLease  modification  is  a  change  in  the  scope  of  a  lease,  or  the 
consideration for a lease, that was not part of the original terms and 
conditions of the lease, for example, adding or terminating the right 
to use one or more underlying assets, or extending or shortening the 
contractual lease term.The Bank accounts for a lease modiﬁcation as a separate lease if both:(i)  the modiﬁcation increases the scope of the lease by adding theright to use one or more underlying assets; and(ii)  the  consideration  for  the  lease  increases  by  an  amount 
commensurate with the stand-alone price for the increase in 
scope and any appropriate adjustments to that stand-alone price 
to reﬂect the circumstances of the particular contract.For a lease modiﬁcation that is not accounted for as a separate lease, 
at the effective date of the lease modiﬁcation the Bank remeasures 
the lease liabilities by discounting the revised lease payments using 
a revised discount rate. The revised discount rate is determined as 
the lessee's incremental borrowing rate at the effective date of the 
modiﬁcation.For the above lease modification, the Bank makes a corresponding 
adjustment to the right-of-use asset.110111财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2021 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2021
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)短期租赁和低价值资产租赁Short-term leases and leases of low-value assets本公司将在租赁期开始日，租赁期不超过 12 个月，且不包含购买
选择权的租赁认定为短期租赁；将单项租赁资产为全新资产时价
值不超过 5,000 美元的租赁认定为低价值资产租赁。本公司转租或
预期转租租赁资产的，原租赁不认定为低价值资产租赁。本公司
对房屋及建筑物、运输工具类别的短期租赁和低价值资产租赁选
择不确认使用权资产和租赁负债。在租赁期内各个期间按照直线
法计入相关的资产成本或当期损益，或有租金在实际发生时计入
当期损益。16. 政府补助政府补助在能够满足其所附的条件并且能够收到时，予以确认。政
府补助为货币性资产的，按照收到或应收的金额计量。政府补助
为非货币性资产的，按照公允价值计量；公允价值不能可靠取得的，
按照名义金额计量。与收益相关的政府补助，用于补偿以后期间
的相关成本费用或损失的，确认为递延收益，并在确认相关成本
费用或损失的期间计入当期损益或冲减相关成本；用于补偿已发
生的相关成本费用或损失的，直接计入当期损益或冲减相关成本。
与资产相关的政府补助，冲减相关资产的账面价值；或确认为递
延收益，在相关资产使用寿命内按照合理、系统的方法分期计入
损益 ( 但按照名义金额计量的政府补助，直接计入当期损益 )，相
关资产在使用寿命结束前被出售、转让、报废或发生毁损的，尚
未分配的相关递延收益余额转入资产处置当期的损益。17.  股份支付本公司的股份支付为以权益结算的股份支付。以权益结算的股份支付换取员工提供服务的，以授予员工权益工
具的公允价值计量。授予后立即可行权的，在授予日按照公允价
值计入相关费用，相应增加资本公积；完成等待期内的服务或达到
规定业绩条件才可行权的，在等待期内每个资产负债表日，以对
可行权权益工具数量的最佳估计为基础，按照授予日的公允价值，
将当期取得的服务计入相关费用，相应增加资本公积。权益工具
的公允价值采用三叉树模型确定。The Bank considers a lease that, at the commencement date of the 
lease, has a lease term of 12 months or less, and does not contains any 
purchase option as a short-term lease; and a lease for which the value of 
the individual underlying asset is not more than USD5000 when it is new 
as a lease of low-value assets. If the Bank subleases an asset, or expects 
to sublease an asset, the head lease does not qualify as a lease of a low-
value asset. The Bank does not recognise the right-of-use assets and lease 
liabilities for buildings and vehicles short-term leases and low-value assets. 
The Bank recognises lease payments on short-term leases and leases of 
low-value assets in the costs of the related asset or profit or loss on a 
straight-line basis over the lease term.(16) Government subsidiesGovernment subsidies will be recognised if the Bank can receive 
government subsidies and meet the conditions attached to government 
subsidies. If government subsidies are monetary assets, they shall 
be measured in the light of the amount received or receivable. If a 
government subsidy is a non-monetary asset, it shall be measured at its 
fair value; and if its fair value cannot be obtained in a reliable way, it shall 
be measured at a nominal amount. Government subsidies associated with 
income which are used as compensation for future costs, expenses or 
losses are recognised as deferred expenditures and shall be recorded in 
future proﬁts and losses to reverse the related costs where the relevant 
costs, expenses or losses are recognised. Government subsidies associated 
with income which are used to compensate the related costs, expenses 
or losses incurred by the Bank are directly included in current proﬁt and 
loss or used to reverse the related costs. Government subsidies associated 
with assets shall set off the book value of related assets or be recognised 
as deferred expenditures. Government subsidies related to assets are 
recognised as deferred expenditures to be distributed over the useful lives 
of the relevant assets and shall be recorded in the proﬁt or loss by stages 
in a reasonable and systematic manner. Government subsidies measured in 
nominal amounts, shall be directly recognised in current proﬁts and losses. 
Where relevant assets are sold, transferred, scraped or damaged before 
the end of their lives, balance of the unallocated deferred expenditures 
shall be recognised in current proﬁt and loss on asset disposal.(17) Share-based paymentThe Bank's share-based compensation programme is measured as an 
equity-settled share-based payment.The equity-settled share-based payment is measured by reference to the 
fair value of the equity instruments granted. Where the equity instruments 
granted vest immediately, the Bank recognises the expense in full at the 
fair value on grant date with a corresponding increase in capital reserve. 
Where the equity instruments granted vest upon the fulﬁlment of service 
period or performance conditions, the Bank makes a best estimate at the 
number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest, at each ﬁnancial 
reporting date of the vesting period, and recognise the expense pertaining 
to the current period at the fair value on grant date with a corresponding 
increase in capital reserve. The fair values of the equity instruments are 
estimated using the Trinomial valuation methodology.对于最终未能行权的股份支付，不确认费用，除非行权条件是市
场条件或非可行权条件，此时无论是否满足市场条件或非可行权
条件，只要满足所有可行权条件中的非市场条件，即视为可行权。如果修改了以权益结算的股份支付的条款，至少按照未修改条款
的情况确认取得的服务。此外，任何增加所授予权益工具公允价
值的修改，或在修改日对员工有利的变更，均确认取得服务的增加。如果取消了以权益结算的股份支付，则于取消日作为加速行权处
理，立即确认尚未确认的金额。员工能够选择满足非可行权条件但
在等待期内未满足的，作为取消以权益结算的股份支付处理。但是，
如果授予新的权益工具，并在新权益工具授予日认定所授予的新权
益工具是用于替代被取消的权益工具的，则以与处理原权益工具
条款和条件修改相同的方式，对所授予的替代权益工具进行处理。18. 职工薪酬职工薪酬，是指本公司为获得职工提供的服务或解除劳动关系而给
予的各种形式的报酬或补偿。职工薪酬包括短期薪酬、离职后福利、
辞退福利和其他长期职工福利。短期薪酬工资与奖金、社会保障福利及其他短期员工福利会于本公司员工
提供服务的期间计提。离职后福利（设定提存计划）本公司的员工参加由当地政府管理的养老保险和失业保险，相应
支出在发生时计入当期损益。本公司员工还可自愿参加本公司设立的企业年金计划。本公司按
员工工资的一定比例向年金计划缴款，相应支出计入当期损益。No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except 
for equity-settled transactions where vesting is conditional upon a market 
or non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of 
whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisﬁed, provided 
that all other performance and service conditions are satisﬁed.Where the terms of an equity–settled award are modiﬁed, as a minimum, 
an expense is recognised as if the terms had not been modified. An 
additional expense is recognised for any modiﬁcation which increases the 
total fair value of the share–based payments, or is otherwise beneﬁcial to 
the employee as measured at the date of modiﬁcation.Where an equity–settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested 
on the date of cancellation, and any expense not yet recognised for the 
award is recognised immediately. This includes any award where non–vesting 
conditions within the control of the employees are not met. However, if a new 
award is substituted for the cancelled award, and designated as a replacement 
award on the date that it is granted, the cancelled and new compensation are 
treated as if they were a modiﬁcation of the original award.(18) Employee beneﬁtsEmployee beneﬁts are all forms of consideration or compensation given by 
the Bank in exchange for service rendered by employees or for the termination 
of employment, including short-term employee beneﬁts, post-employment 
beneﬁts, termination beneﬁts and other long-term beneﬁts.Short-term employee beneﬁtsSalaries and bonuses, social security contributions and other short-term 
employee beneﬁts are accrued in the period in which services have been 
rendered by the employees of the Bank.Post-employment beneﬁts (deﬁned contribution plan)Employees of the Bank participate in the retirement insurance plan, and 
unemployment insurance plan administered by the local government, and 
the contribution is recognised to proﬁt or loss of that period.Employees of the Bank can participate in the annuity plan established 
by the Bank on a voluntary basis. The Bank contributes to the annuity at 
a certain percentage of employees' salary, and recognises the cost in the 
proﬁt or loss accordingly.112113财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2021 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2021
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)19. 所得税(19) Income tax20. 公允价值计量(20) Fair value measurement所得税包括当期所得税和递延所得税。除与直接计入所有者权益
的交易或事项相关的所得税计入所有者权益外，其他所得税均计
入当期损益。本公司对于当期和以前期间形成的当期所得税负债或资产，按照
税法规定计算的预期应交纳或返还的所得税金额计量。本公司根据资产与负债于资产负债表日的账面价值与计税基础之
间的暂时性差异，以及未作为资产和负债确认但按照税法规定可
以确定其计税基础的项目的账面价值与计税基础之间的差额产生
的暂时性差异，采用资产负债表债务法计提递延所得税。各种应纳税暂时性差异均据以确认递延所得税负债。对于可抵扣暂时性差异、能够结转以后年度的可抵扣亏损和税款
抵减，本公司以很可能取得用来抵扣可抵扣暂时性差异、可抵扣
亏损和税款抵减的未来应纳税所得额为限，确认由此产生的递延
所得税资产。本公司于资产负债表日，对于递延所得税资产和递延所得税负债，
依据税法规定，按照预期收回该资产或清偿该负债期间的适用税
率计量，并反映资产负债表日预期收回资产或清偿负债方式的所
得税影响。于资产负债表日，本公司对递延所得税资产的账面价值进行复核。
如果未来期间很可能无法获得足够的应纳税所得额用以抵扣递延
所得税资产的利益，减记递延所得税资产的账面价值。于资产负债
表日，本公司重新评估未确认的递延所得税资产，在很可能获得足
够的应纳税所得额可供所有或部分递延所得税资产转回的限度内，
确认递延所得税资产。同时满足下列条件时，递延所得税资产和递延所得税负债以抵销
后的净额列示：拥有以净额结算当期所得税资产及当期所得税负
债的法定权利；递延所得税资产和递延所得税负债是与同一税收
征管部门对同一应纳税主体征收的所得税相关或者对不同的纳税
主体相关，但在未来每一具有重要性的递延所得税资产和递延所
得税负债转回的期间内，涉及的纳税主体体意图以净额结算当期
所得税资产及当期所得税负债或是同时取得资产、清偿债务。Income tax includes current tax and deferred tax. Current income tax and 
movements in deferred tax balances are recognised in proﬁt or loss except 
that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case the tax 
is recognised directly in equity.Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods 
are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the 
taxation authorities in accordance with relevant tax regulations.Deferred income tax is provided, using the liability method, on all 
temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and 
their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes at the balance 
sheet date.Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary 
differences.Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary 
differences, carryforward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, to 
the extent that it is probable that taxable proﬁt will be available against 
which the deductible temporary differences, and the carryforward of 
unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised.Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are 
expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability 
is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or 
substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each 
financial reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer 
probable that sufﬁcient taxable proﬁt will be available to allow all or part 
of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised. Unrecognised deferred 
income tax assets are reassessed at each ﬁnancial reporting date and are 
recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable 
proﬁt will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset when fulfilling 
of the following conditions: A legally enforceable right exists to set off 
current tax assets against current tax liabilities; The deferred tax assets and 
deferred tax liabilities are related to the income tax levied on the same 
taxpayer by the same tax administrative department or are related to 
different taxpayers but, within each future period of reversal of important 
deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities, the taxpayers involved 
intend to settle current tax assets and current tax liabilities or acquire 
assets and liquidate liabilities at the same time.本公司于每个资产负债表日以公允价值计量衍生金融工具、交易
性金融资产、其他以公允价值计量且其变动计入当期损益的金融
资产、其他债权投资以及交易性金融负债。公允价值，是指市场
参与者在计量日发生的有序交易中，出售一项资产所能收到或者
转移一项负债所需支付的价格。本公司以公允价值计量相关资产
或负债，假定出售资产或者转移负债的有序交易在相关资产或负
债的主要市场进行；不存在主要市场的，本公司假定该交易在相
关资产或负债的最有利市场进行。主要市场 ( 或最有利市场 ) 是本
公司在计量日能够进入的交易市场。本公司采用市场参与者在对
该资产或负债定价时为实现其经济利益最大化所使用的假设。本公司采用在当前情况下适用并且有足够可利用数据和其他信息
支持的估值技术，优先使用相关可观察输入值，只有在可观察输入
值无法取得或取得不切实可行的情况下，才使用不可观察输入值。在财务报表中以公允价值计量或披露的资产和负债，根据对公允
价值计量整体而言具有重要意义的最低层次输入值，确定所属的
公允价值层次：在计量日能够取得的相同资产或负债在活跃市场
上未经调整的报价为第一层次输入值；除第一层次输入值外相关
资产或负债直接或间接可观察的输入值为第二层次输入值；相关
资产或负债的不可观察输入值为第三层次输入值。每个资产负债表日，本公司对在财务报表中确认的持续以公允价
值计量的资产和负债进行重新评估，以确定是否在公允价值计量
层次之间发生转换。21. 关联方一方控制、共同控制另一方或对另一方施加重大影响，以及两方
或两方以上同受一方控制、共同控制或重大影响的，构成关联方。仅同受国家控制而不存在其他关联方关系的企业，不构成本公司
的关联方。At each ﬁnancial reporting date, the Bank measures its derivatives, ﬁnancial 
assets at fair value through profit or loss, other debt instrument at fair 
value through other comprehensive income and ﬁnancial liabilities at fair 
value through proﬁt or loss. Fair value is the price that would be received 
to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction 
between market participants at the measurement date. The fair value 
measurement is based on the assumption that the orderly transaction 
to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either in the principal 
market for the asset or liability, or in the absence of a principal market, 
in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability. The principal 
or the most advantageous market must be accessible to the Bank. The 
fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumption that 
market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, assuming 
that market participants act in their economic best interest.The  Bank  uses  valuation  techniques  that  are  appropriate  in  the 
circumstances and for which sufﬁcient data are available to measure the 
fair value. Use of observable inputs is maximized and unobservable inputs 
will only be used when observable inputs are not available or obtaining 
observable inputs becomes unpractical.For assets and liabilities measured and disclosed at fair value, the fair 
value measurement is categorised in its entirety in the same level of 
the fair value hierarchy as the lowest level input that is significant to 
the entire measurement: Level 1 inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in 
active markets for identical assets or liabilities that are accessible at the 
measurement date; Level 2 inputs are inputs other than quoted prices 
included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either 
directly or indirectly; Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset 
or liability.For assets and liabilities held at the end of the balance sheet date that are 
measured at fair value on a recurring basis, the Bank continues to make 
assessment as to whether there is transfer between different levels of the 
fair value hierarchy.(21) Related partiesParties are considered to be related if one party has the ability, directly 
or indirectly, to control the other party or exercise signiﬁcant inﬂuence 
over the other party.  Parties are also considered to be related if they are 
subject to common control or common signiﬁcant inﬂuence.The state-owned enterprises without other relationships do not constitute 
related parties.114115财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2021 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2021
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)22. 受托业务(22) Entrusted business合同现金流量特征Characteristics of the contractual cash ﬂows本公司以被任命者、受托人或代理人等受托身份进行活动时，该
委托活动所产生的资产与该资产偿还客户的保证未包括在本报表。23. 或有负债或有负债指过去的交易或者事项形成的潜在义务，其存在须通过
未来不确定事项的发生或不发生予以证实；或过去的交易或者事
项形成的现时义务，履行该义务不是很可能导致经济利益流出或
该义务的金额不能可靠计量，因此该义务不予确认。本公司对或有负债不予确认，仅在附注中加以披露。如情况发生
变化使得该事项很有可能导致经济利益的流出时，则将其确认为
预计负债。24. 重大会计判断和会计估计在本公司执行会计政策的过程中，管理层对财务报表未来不确定
事项作出了判断、估计和假设。这些判断、估计和假设会影响收入、
费用、资产和负债的列报金额及其披露。这些估计和假设的不确
定性所导致的结果可能造成对未来受影响的资产或负债的账面金
额进行重大调整。判断在应用本公司的会计政策的过程中，管理层作出了以下对财务报
表所确认的金额具有重大影响的判断：业务模式金融资产于初始确认时的分类取决于本公司管理金融资产的业务
模式，在判断业务模式时，本公司考虑包括企业评价和向关键管
理人员报告金融资产业绩的方式、影响金融资产业绩的风险及其
管理方式以及相关业务管理人员获得报酬的方式等。在评估是否
以收取合同现金流量为目标时，本公司需要对金融资产到期日前
的出售原因、时间、频率和价值等进行分析判断。Where  the  Bank  acts  in  an  entrusted  business  such  as  nominee, 
custodian  or  agent,  assets  arising  thereon  together  with  related 
undertakings to return such assets to customers are excluded from the 
ﬁnancial statements.(23) Contingent liabilitiesA contingent liability is a possible obligation that arises from past 
events and whose existence will only be conﬁrmed by the occurrence 
or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly 
within the control of the Bank. It can also be a present obligation 
arising  from  past  events  that  is  not  recognised  because  it  is  not 
probable that an outﬂow of economic resources will be required or 
the amount of obligation cannot be measured reliably.The Bank will not recognise contingent liabilities, but disclosed in the 
notes to ﬁnancial statements. In case the condition changes, which led 
to the outﬂow of economic resources is probable, provisions will be 
made.(24) Signiﬁcant accounting judgment and estimatesIn the process of applying the accounting policies, the management 
has used its judgments and made estimates and assumptions of the 
effects of uncertain future events on the ﬁnancial statements. The use 
of judgments, estimates and assumptions will affect the amount of 
income, expense, assets and liabilities presented and disclosed. The 
uncertainty of such estimates and assumptions might have a signiﬁcant 
risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets 
and liabilities in the future.JudgmentIn the process of applying the accounting policies, the management 
make  following  judgments  which  has  significant  impact  on  the 
amounts recognised in the ﬁnancial statements:Business modelFinancial assets are initially classified based on the Bank's business 
model for managing the ﬁnancial assets. The Bank judges the business 
model, with the consideration of enterprise evaluation, the reporting 
mode  to  key  management,  related  risk  and  corresponding  risk 
management method of ﬁnancial assets performance, and the reward 
system of related business personnel. The Bank analyses and judges the 
reason, timing, frequency and value of selling financial assets before 
maturity date when judging whether the business model is to collect 
contractual cash ﬂows or not.116金融资产于初始确认时的分类取决于金融资产的合同现金流量特
征，需要判断合同现金流量是否仅为对本金和以未偿付本金为基
础的利息的支付时，包含对货币时间价值的修正进行评估时，需要
判断与基准现金流量相比是否具有显著差异、对包含提前还款特
征的金融资产，需要判断提前还款特征的公允价值是否非常小等。估计的不确定性Financial assets are initially classiﬁed based on their contractual cash 
ﬂow characteristics. When judging whether the contractual cash ﬂow 
are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount 
outstanding, the considerations contain: (i)judging whether there exists 
signiﬁcant difference compared with the benchmark cash ﬂow, when 
evaluating the modiﬁcation of the time value of the money, (ii) judging 
whether fair value of the early repayment characteristics is immaterial 
for ﬁnancial assets with early repayment characteristics.以下为于资产负债表日有关未来的关键假设以及估计不确定性的
其他关键来源，可能会导致未来会计期间资产和负债账面金额重
大调整。Uncertainty of estimates金融工具减值2018 年 1 月 1 日之后，本公司采用预期信用损失模型对金融工具的
减值进行评估，应用预期信用损失模型需要做出重大判断和估计，
需考虑所有合理且有依据的信息，包括前瞻性信息。在做出这些
判断和估计时，本公司根据历史还款数据结合经济政策、宏观经
济指标、行业风险等因素推断债务人信用风险的预期变动。不同
的估计可能会影响减值准备的计提，已计提的减值准备可能并不
等于未来实际的减值损失金额。除金融资产之外的非流动资产减值本公司于资产负债表日对除金融资产之外的非流动资产判断是否
存在可能发生减值的迹象。对使用寿命不确定的无形资产，除每
年进行的减值测试外，当其存在减值迹象时，也进行减值测试。其
他除金融资产之外的非流动资产，当存在迹象表明其账面金额不可
收回时，进行减值测试。当资产或资产组的账面价值高于可收回金
额，即公允价值减去处置费用后的净额和预计未来现金流量的现
值中的较高者，表明发生了减值。公允价值减去处置费用后的净额，
参考公平交易中类似资产的销售协议价格或可观察到的市场价格，
减去可直接归属于该资产处置的增量成本确定。预计未来现金流量
现值时，管理层必须估计该项资产或资产组的预计未来现金流量，
并选择恰当的折现率确定未来现金流量的现值。The following items are the key hypothesis about the future and other key 
source of uncertainty of estimates on ﬁnancial reporting date. It may cause 
signiﬁcant modiﬁcation on carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the 
future accounting period.Impairment of ﬁnancial instrumentsThe Bank uses the expected credit loss model to evaluate the impairment 
of financial instruments since 1 January 2018. Applying the expected 
credit loss model need to make signiﬁcant judgment and estimates with 
consideration of all reasonable information with proper basis, including 
the forward-looking information. When making those judgment and 
estimates, the Bank deduces the expected changes of obligor's credit 
risk with consideration of the historical repayment data combined with 
the economic policy, macroeconomic indicators, industry risk and etc. 
Different estimates may affect the impairment provision. The provision for 
impairment may not equal amount of impairment losses in the future.Impairment of non-current assets besides ﬁnancial assetsNon-current assets other than ﬁnancial-assets are reviewed for impairment 
on ﬁnancial reporting date. When the carrying amount of an asset is greater 
than its estimated recoverable amount, it is written down immediately to 
its recoverable amount. For intangible assets with indeﬁnite useful lives, the 
impairment test is made annually and when impairment indications exist. For 
other non-current assets besides ﬁnancial assets, the impairment test is made 
when there is an indication that their carrying amount is not recoverable. 
When the carrying amount of an asset or a group of assets is higher than 
their recoverable amount, i.e. higher of its fair value less costs to sell and the 
present value of estimated future discounted cash ﬂows, it is indicated that 
the impairment losses have occurred. Fair value less costs to sell refers to the 
selling contract price from fair trading of similar asset or the observable market 
price, less the incremental costing directly attributes to the asset disposal. 
When estimating the present value of future discounted cash flows. The 
management must estimate the future cash ﬂow of the asset or the group of 
assets, and choose a proper discount rate to determine the present value.117财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2021 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2021
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)递延所得税资产Deferred income tax assets五、会计政策和会计估计变更5. Changes in Accounting Policies and Estimates在很可能有足够的应纳税所得额用以抵扣可抵扣亏损的限度内，
应就所有尚未利用的可抵扣亏损确认递延所得税资产。这需要管
理层运用大量的判断来估计未来取得应纳税所得额的时间和金额，
结合纳税筹划策略，以决定应确认的递延所得税资产的金额。金融工具的公允价值对于存在活跃市场的金融工具，本公司优先采用活跃市场的报价
确定其公允价值。对于不存在活跃市场的金融工具，本公司采用
估值技术确定其公允价值。估值技术包括参考熟悉情况并自愿交
易的各方最近进行的市场交易中使用的价格、参照实质上相同的
其他金融工具的当前公允价值和现金流量折现法等。在可行的情
况下，估值技术尽可能使用市场参数。然而，当缺乏市场参数时，
管理层需就自身和交易对手的信贷风险、市场波动率、相关性等
方面作出估计。这些相关假设的变化会对金融工具的公允价值产
生影响。金融工具终止确认于金融工具转移交易中，本公司管理层需就与所转移金融工具所
有权有关的风险及报酬进行分析与判断，并根据分析的结果进行
相应的账务处理。承租人增量借款利率本公司采用承租人增量借款利率作为折现率计算租赁付款额的现
值。确定增量借款利率时，本公司根据所处经济环境，以可观察
的利率作为确定增量借款利率的参考基础，在此基础上，根据自
身情况、标的资产情况、租赁期和租赁负债金额等租赁业务具体
情况对参考利率进行调整以得出适用的增量借款利率。Deferred tax assets are recognised for all unused tax losses to the 
extent that it is probable that taxable proﬁt will be available against 
which the losses can be utilised. Signiﬁcant management judgement is 
required to determine the amount of deferred tax assets that can be 
recognised, based upon the likely timing and level of future taxable 
proﬁts together with future tax planning strategies.Fair value of ﬁnancial instrumentsThe Bank establishes fair value of ﬁnancial instruments with reference 
to a quoted market price in an active market or, if there is no active 
market, using valuation techniques. These valuation techniques include 
the use of recent arm's length transactions, observable prices for 
similar instruments, discounted cash ﬂow analysis using risk-adjusted 
interest rates, and commonly used market pricing models. Whenever 
possible  these  models  use  observable  market  inputs  and  data 
including, for example, interest rate yield curves, foreign currency rates 
and option volatilities. The results of using valuation techniques are 
calibrated against the industry practice and observable current market 
transactions in the same or similar instruments.Derecognition of ﬁnancial instrumentsThe Bank assesses and judges on the extent to which it retains the 
risks and rewards of ownership of the financial instruments for the 
transferred transactions entered into, and make relevant accounting 
treatments accordingly.Lessee's incremental borrowing rateThe Bank measures the lease liability at the present value of the 
lease payments discounted using the lessee's incremental borrowing 
rate. According to the economic environment, the Bank takes the 
observable interest rate as the reference basis for determining the 
incremental borrowing rate, then adjusts the observable interest rate 
based on its own circumstances, underlying assets, lease terms and 
amounts of lease liabilities to determine the applicable incremental 
borrowing rate.关于基准利率改革导致相关合同现金流量的确定基础发生变更的会计
处理Accounting treatment of changes in the basis for determining contractual 
cash ﬂows arising from interest rate benchmark reform财政部于 2021 年 1 月颁布了《企业会计准则解释第 14 号》( 财会 [2021]1 
号 )，主要明确了基准利率改革导致金融资产或金融负债合同现金流
量的确定基础发生变更的会计处理、基准利率改革导致的租赁变更的
会计处理及相关披露要求。本公司自 2021 年 1 月 1 日起执行该解释，执行该解释对本年财务报表
无重大影响。六、税项MOF  issued  the  Accounting  Standard  for  Business  Enterprises 
Interpretation No 14 in January 2021, which clarified the accounting 
treatment  and  disclosure  requirements  of  changes  in  the  basis  of 
determining contractual cash ﬂows of ﬁnancial assets or ﬁnancial liabilities 
and changes to lease payments arising from interest rate benchmark 
reform.The Bank implemented above accounting policy since 1 January 2021, and 
there was no signiﬁcant impact on current year's ﬁnancial statements.本公司本年度主要税项及其税率列示如下：6. TaxationThe major categories of tax applicable to the Bank and the respective tax 
rates for the current ﬁnancial year are as follows:增值税
Value-added tax应税收入按 13% 或 6% 的税率计算销项税，并按扣除当期允许抵扣的进项税额后的差额计缴增值税。
The Bank is subjected to a Value-added output tax levied on 13 per cent or six per cent of taxable income 
deduct the input tax.城市维护建设税
City construction tax按实际缴纳的流转税的 7% 计缴。
The Bank is subjected to a city construction tax rate of seven per cent on turnover tax.教育费附加
Educational surcharge按实际缴纳的流转税的 3% 计缴。
The Bank is subjected to an educational surcharge rate of three per cent on turnover tax.企业所得税
Corporate income tax按应纳税所得额的 25% 计缴。
The Bank is subjected to a corporate tax rate of 25 per cent.代扣缴个人所得税
Withholding Individual Income tax本公司支付给雇员的薪金，由本公司按税法代扣缴个人所得税。
In accordance with the relevant tax laws in the PRC, the Bank is required to withhold individual income tax 
on salaries paid to its employees.118119财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2021 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2021
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)七、财务报表主要项目附注7. Notes to Financial Statements1. 现金及存放中央银行款项(1) Cash and deposit with the Central Bank3. 拆出资金(3) Placements with banks and other ﬁnancial institutions库存现金Cash on hand存放中央银行法定准备金 - 人民币 Statutory deposit reserve with the Central Bank - RMB存放中央银行法定准备金 - 外币Statutory deposit reserve with the Central Bank - foreign currency存放中央银行外汇风险准备金Foreign exchange risk reserve with the Central Bank存放中央银行的其他款项Other deposits with the Central Bank应收利息Interest receivable减：存放中央银行款项减值准备Less: allowance for impairment losses合计Total根据中国人民银行的有关规定，本公司必须按一定比率缴付存款准备
金于中国人民银行。于 2021 年 12 月 31 日，本公司人民币及外币存款
准备金缴存比例分别为 8% (2020 年 12 月 31 日 10.5%)  及 9% (2020 年 12
月 31 日：5%)。从 2015 年 10 月起，根据中国人民银行的有关规定，本公司按月缴纳
外汇风险准备金，每月按上月远期售汇签约额的一定比例缴存外汇风
险准备金。2020 年 10 月起，外汇风险准备金的缴存比例由 20% 调整
至 0%。于 2021 年 12 月 31 日及 2020 年 12 月 31 日，本公司将存放中央银行款
项纳入阶段一，按其未来 12 个月内预期信用损失计量减值准备。31-12-20212,039,9822,884,753,084616,431,269-2,700,435,2881,479,297(644,914)31-12-20204,163,6443,304,047,179284,969,029586,468,851512,775,2191,655,508(486,116)拆放及借出境内银行同业及
其他金融机构Placements with domestic banks and other ﬁnancial institutions6,054,302,9374,821,387,36031-12-202131-12-2020拆放及借出境外银行同业Placements with overseas banks应收利息小计Interest receivableSub-total减：拆放同业减值准备Less: allowance for impairment losses2,561,523,0001,846,037,00011,663,34110,092,4648,627,489,2786,677,516,824(18,654,199)(9,624,176)6,204,494,0064,693,593,314拆出资金净额Net amount of placements with banks and other ﬁnancial institutions8,608,835,0796,667,892,648The Bank places statutory deposit reserves with the People's Bank of China 
(PBOC) in accordance with relevant regulations issued by it. As at 31 December 
2021, statutory deposit reserves placed with the PBOC were calculated 
at eight per cent (31 December 2020: 10.5 per cent) and nine per cent (31 
December 2020: ﬁve per cent) of qualiﬁed RMB deposits and foreign currency 
deposits from customers respectively.The Bank places foreign exchange risk reserve with the PBOC monthly 
in accordance with relevant regulations since October 2015. The foreign 
exchange risk reserve is calculated at a certain percentage of the contractual 
amount of forward sales of exchanges in the preceding month. The foreign 
exchange risk reserve ratio reduced from 20% to zero per cent since October 
2020.As at 31 December 2021 and 31 December 2020, the Bank included all deposit 
with the Central Bank in Stage I, and measured the impairment losses based 
on expected credit losses in the next 12 months (12-month ECL).拆放同业减值准备为本公司根据银监发 [2010]45 号《中国银监会关于
印发〈银行业金融机构国别风险管理指引〉的通知》的规定而计提的
国别风险减值准备以及按照 12 个月预期信用损失计提的减值准备。于 2021 年 12 月 31 日及 2020 年 12 月 31 日，本公司将全部拆出资金纳
入阶段一，按其未来 12 个月内预期信用损失计量减值准备。Impairment  provisions  for  placements  represented  the  country  risk 
reserve provided according to Yin Jian Fa [2010] No 45 Circular of the 
China Banking Regulatory Commission on Printing and Distributing 
the Guidelines for Country Risk Management of the Banking Financial 
Institutions issued by CBIRC, and the provision for impairment measured 
according to 12-month expected credit loss.As at 31 December 2021 and 31 December 2020, the Bank included all 
placements with banks and other financial institutions in Stage I, and 
measured the impairment losses based on expected credit losses in the 
next 12 months (12-month ECL).4. 交易性金融资产(4) Financial assets held-for-trading31-12-202131-12-2020以公允价值计量且其变动计入
当期损益的金融资产：Financial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss:2. 存放同业款项(2) Due from banks and other ﬁnancial institutions中央银行票据及国债Central Bank bills and government bonds772,023,120149,776,650存放境内银行同业及其他金融机构 Due from domestic banks and other ﬁnancial institutions存放境外银行同业Due from overseas banks应收利息小计Interest receivableSub-total减：存放同业减值准备Less: allowance for impairment losses存放同业净额Net amount of due from banks and other ﬁnancial institutions31-12-20211,417,603,6202,139,513,8513533,557,117,824(12,855,970)3,544,261,85431-12-2020901,033,5432,794,856,980491,4693,696,381,992(15,668,827)3,680,713,165政策性银行债企业债拆放同业同业存单应收利息合计Policy bank bondsCorporate bondsPlacement with banks and other ﬁnancial institutionsNegotiable certiﬁcates of depositInterest receivableTotal1,059,577,750136,479,810-198,590,60030,762,909--821,291,982547,659,6506,513,5622,197,434,1891,525,241,844存放同业减值准备为本公司根据银监发 [2010]45 号《中国银监会关于
印发 < 银行业金融机构国别风险管理指引 > 的通知》的规定而计提的
国别风险减值准备以及按照 12 个月预期信用损失计提的减值准备。于 2021 年 12 月 31 日及 2020 年 12 月 31 日，本公司将全部存放同业款
项纳入阶段一，按其未来 12 个月内预期信用损失计量减值准备。Impairment provisions for due from banks and other financial institutions 
represented the country risk reserve provided according to Yin Jian Fa [2010] 
No 45 Circular of the China Banking Regulatory Commission on Printing and 
Distributing the Guidelines for Country Risk Management of the Banking 
Financial Institutions issued by CBIRC, and the provision for impairment 
measured according to 12-month expected credit loss.As at 31 December 2021 and 31 December 2020, the Bank included all due from 
banks and other ﬁnancial institutions in Stage I, and measured the impairment 
losses based on expected credit losses in the next 12 months (12-month ECL).120121财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2021 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2021
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)5. 衍生金融工具(5) Derivative ﬁnancial instruments6. 买入返售金融资产(6) Reverse repurchase ﬁnancial assets衍生金融工具指一种金融产品，其价值取决于其所依附的另一种“基
础性”金融产品指数或其他变量的价值。通常这些“基础性”产品包括股票、
大宗商品、债券市价、指数市价或汇率及利率等。本公司运用的衍生
金融工具包括远期合约、掉期、期权和期货。A derivative is a ﬁnancial instrument, the value of which is derived from the 
value of another "underlying" financial instrument, an index or some other 
variables. Typically, an “underlying” ﬁnancial instrument is a share, commodity 
or bond price, an index value or an exchange or interest rate. The Bank uses 
derivative instruments such as forwards, swaps, options and futures.衍生金融工具的名义金额是指其所依附的“基础性”资产的合同价值，
体现资产负债表日未结清的部分。该合同价值反映了会计核算期末本
公司的衍生金融工具的风险敞口而非公允价值。本公司无为套期保值目的而被指定为套期工具的衍生金融工具。The notional amount of a derivative represents the amount of underlying 
asset upon which the value of the derivative is based. It indicates the 
unsettled volume of business transaction at the balance sheet date. The 
amount of underlying asset reﬂects the risk exposure of derivative at the end 
of accounting period other than fair value.本公司于资产负债表日所持有的衍生金融工具如下：The Bank has no derivative designated as hedging instruments.The notional amount and fair value of the Bank's derivative instruments are as 
follows:31-12-202131-12-2020公允价值 Fair Value公允价值 Fair Value名义金额
Notional Amount资产
Assets负债
Liabilities名义金额
Notional Amount资产
Assets负债
Liabilities11,839,604,341173,886,669223,208,4518,797,620,81844,514,86199,178,077234,785,740,8921,723,924,0571,697,919,391351,342,390,2968,773,152,0719,055,376,16919,690,815,679168,398,208167,560,33432,502,777,345637,786,380435,045,791266,316,160,9122,066,208,9342,088,688,176392,642,788,4599,455,453,3129,589,600,037外汇衍生工具：Foreign exchange contracts:远期合约掉期合约期权合约小计利率衍生工具：ForwardsSwapsOptionsSub-total
Interest rate contracts:掉期合约Swaps207,500,634,6041,369,704,7941,359,902,742243,447,312,204  1,106,967,6531,047,472,263小计
商品价格挂钩工具：Commodity contracts:Sub-total207,500,634,6041,369,704,7941,359,902,742243,447,312,204  1,106,967,6531,047,472,263掉期合约Swaps8,112,500,694376,568,008375,331,5515,155,710,682177,610,492177,092,741小计
股票价格挂钩工具：Equity contracts:Sub-total期权合约Options小计
贵金属衍生工具： Precious metal derivativesSub-totalForwardsSwapsOptionsFuturesSub-totalTotal远期合约掉期合约期权合约期货合约小计合计1228,112,500,694376,568,008375,331,5515,155,710,682177,610,492177,092,741353,015,412353,015,412416,203416,203433,453433,453639,119,7261,679,1731,702,732639,119,7261,679,1731,702,73218,925,150,995641,014,969428,974,34020,331,014,212780,277,619703,007,73010,556,889,95685,079,44444,925,0116,167,899,79737,819,46372,602,40834,037,74915,91915,921---789,187,2702,735,4535,175,3941,582,042,1227,328,62919,885,71430,305,265,970728,845,785479,090,66628,080,956,131825,425,711795,495,852512,587,577,5924,541,743,7244,303,446,588669,965,887,202 11,567,136,34111,611,363,625按交易对手分类：Classiﬁed by counter-party:同业应收利息减：减值准备合计按质押品分类：债券应收利息减：减值准备合计Financial institutionsInterest receivableLess: allowance for impairment lossesTotal
Classiﬁed by type of pledged assets：BondsInterest receivableLess: allowance for impairment lossesTotal31-12-202131-12-20201,432,091,0002,271,360,000413,153(69,977)2,481,680(204,966)1,432,434,1762,273,636,7141,432,091,0002,271,360,000413,153(69,977)2,481,680(204,966)1,432,434,1762,273,636,714于 2021 年 12 月 31 日及 2020 年 12 月 31 日，本公司将全部买入返售金
融资产纳入阶段一，按其未来 12 个月内预期信用损失计量减值准备。As at 31 December 2021 and 31 December 2020, the Bank included all reverse 
repurchase financial assets in Stage I, and measured the impairment losses 
based on expected credit losses in the next 12 months (12-month ECL).7. 发放贷款和垫款7.1 按个人和企业分布(7) Loans and advances to customers(7.1) Distribution of loans and advances by individual and corporate31-12-202131-12-2020以摊余成本法计量的发放贷款和垫款 Loans and advances to customers at amortised cost个人贷款和垫款：住房按揭其他小计企业贷款和垫款：贷款贴现贸易融资小计Retail loans and advances:MortgagesOthersSub-total
Corporate loans and advances:LoansDiscounted billsTrade ﬁnanceSub-total以公允价值计量且其变动计入其他综
合收益的发放贷款和垫款Loans and advances to customers at fair value through other 
comprehensive income以公允价值计量且其变动
计入当期损益的发放贷款和垫款Loans and advances to customers at fair value through proﬁt or 
loss合计贷款应收利息发放贷款和垫款总额减：贷款减值准备TotalInterest receivableTotal amount of loans and advancesLess: allowance for impairment losses4,846,248,1425,732,690,002759,8081,351,9874,847,007,9505,734,041,98918,407,383,395-12,704,846,05031,112,229,4452,561,239,5261,396,034,23639,916,511,157208,821,95017,426,062,4381,051,912,19911,802,993,58230,280,968,219-866,797,76736,881,807,975174,613,35140,125,333,10737,056,421,326(965,228,077)(870,385,199)发放贷款和垫款账面价值Net value of loans and advances to customers39,160,105,03036,186,036,127123财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2021 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2021
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)7.2 按行业分布(7.2) Distribution of loans and advances to customers by industry7.4 按担保方式分布(7.4) Loans and advances to customers by type of collateral or guarantee房地产业批发和零售业制造业Real estatesWholesale and retailManufacturing交通运输、仓储和邮政业Transportation, storage and post金融业住宿和餐饮业FinanceAccommodation and catering租赁和商务服务业Leasing and commercial services信息传输、软件和信息技术服务业 Telecommunication, software and information managementservices农林牧渔业建筑业Agriculture, forestry, farming and ﬁshingConstruction电力、热力、燃气及水生产和供应业 Electricity, heat, gas and water supply卫生、社会保障和社会福利业Health, social security and social welfare科学研究和技术服务业Scientiﬁc research and technical services教育业个人贷款合计贷款应收利息发放贷款和垫款总额减：贷款减值准备EducationRetail loanTotalInterest receivableTotal amount of loans and advancesLess: allowance for impairment losses发放贷款和垫款账面价值Net value of loans and advances to customers31-12-2021账面余额
Amount比例
Percentage账面余额 
Amount31-12-2020比例
Percentage9,864,293,2488,176,231,0537,480,104,6802,251,512,2581,864,687,5941,208,102,2641,031,760,2361,022,884,651700,206,742571,003,408455,998,256379,718,81761,000,0002,000,00025%20%19%6%5%3%3%2%2%1%1%1%--9,256,345,9576,921,873,2227,292,548,8261,052,765,2351,933,416,7861,213,622,495543,903,0341,266,862,528533,781,913263,378,486454,948,415368,994,01943,639,8071,685,26325%19%20%3%5%3%1%3%1%1%1%1%--4,847,007,95012%5,734,041,98939,916,511,157100%36,881,807,97517%100%208,821,95040,125,333,107(965,228,077)39,160,105,030174,613,35137,056,421,326(870,385,199)36,186,036,1277.3 按地区分布东北华东华北华中华南西南西北境外地区合计贷款应收利息NortheastEastNorthCentralSouthSouthwestNorthwestOverseasTotalInterest receivable发放贷款和垫款总额减：贷款减值准备Total amount of loans and advancesLess: allowance for impairment losses发放贷款和垫款账面价值Net value of loans and advances to customers(7.3) Distribution of loans and advances to customers by geographical region31-12-2021592,574,13217,381,224,7927,805,262,1732,138,159,6915,703,995,6693,837,574,057349,880,4672,107,840,17639,916,511,157208,821,95040,125,333,107(965,228,077)39,160,105,03031-12-20201,220,488,04715,756,734,6727,130,310,3691,017,390,9125,803,857,0523,996,084,325296,910,3641,660,032,23436,881,807,975174,613,35137,056,421,326(870,385,199)36,186,036,127信用贷款保证贷款附担保物贷款其中：抵押贷款质押贷款合计贷款应收利息Unsecured loansGuaranteed loansLoans with collateralsOf which:Secured by mortgagesSecured by pledgesTotalInterest receivable发放贷款和垫款总额减：贷款减值准备Total amount of loans and advancesLess: allowance for impairment losses发放贷款和垫款账面价值Net value of loans and advances to customers7.5 逾期贷款(7.5) Overdue Loan31-12-20217,243,408,3077,996,640,03724,676,462,81319,029,865,1815,646,597,63239,916,511,157208,821,95040,125,333,107(965,228,077)39,160,105,030逾期 1 天至
90 天
Overdue 1 day
 to 90 days逾期 91 天至 1 年
（含 1 年）
Over 90 days to 1 
year  (inclusive)逾期 1 年至 3 年
（含 3 年）
Overdue 1 year to 3 
years (inclusive)逾期 3 年
以上
Overdue 3 years 
above31-12-20208,275,088,6084,950,007,17723,656,712,19018,996,259,2964,660,452,89436,881,807,975174,613,35137,056,421,326(870,385,199)36,186,036,12731-12-2021合计Total保证贷款Guaranteed loans--41,570,926-41,570,926附担保物贷款Loans with collaterals222,8254,477,57176,862,910838,66182,401,967其中：Of which:抵押贷款质押贷款Secured by mortgages222,8254,477,57167,807,487838,66173,346,544Secured by pledges--9,055,423-9,055,423合计Total222,8254,477,571118,433,836838,661123,972,893逾期 1 天至
90 天
Overdue 1 day
 to 90 days逾期 91 天至 1 年
（含 1 年）
Over 90 days to 1 
year  (inclusive)逾期 1 年至 3 年
（含 3 年）
Overdue 1 year to 3 
years (inclusive)逾期 3 年
以上
Overdue 3 years 
above31-12-2020合计Total保证贷款Guaranteed loans7,370,00014,757,28327,806,538-49,933,821附担保物贷款Loans with collaterals2,691,06559,064,53419,178,7417,800,80988,735,149其中：Of which:抵押贷款质押贷款Secured by mortgages236,48552,283,60219,178,7417,800,80979,499,637Secured by pledges2,454,5806,780,932--9,235,512合计Total10,061,06573,821,81746,985,2797,800,809138,668,970逾期贷款是指本金或利息逾期 1 天或以上的贷款。Overdue loans are loans of which the principals or related interests are 
overdue for one day or above.124125财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2021 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2021
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)7.6 贷款损失准备(7.6)  Loan impairment provision以摊余成本法计量的发放贷款和垫款减值准备按照本公司 12 个月预期
信用损失及整个存续期预期信用损失分别计提，减值准备的变动如下：The allowances for loans and advances measured at amortised cost are 
measured according to the 12-month expected credit loss and lifetime 
expected credit loss respectively. The movement of impairment provisions is 
as follows:以公允价值计量且变动计入其他综合收益的发放贷款和垫款损失准备
按照本公司12个月预期信用损失及整个存续期预期信用损失分别计提，
列示如下：The  allowance  for  loans  and  advances  at  fair  value  through  other 
comprehensive income are measured according to the 12-month expected 
credit loss and lifetime expected credit loss respectively. The movement of 
impairment provisions is as follows:第一阶段
Stage I第二阶段
Stage II第三阶段
Stage III未来 12 个月
预期信用损失
12-month expected
credit loss整个存续期
预期信用损失
Lifetime expected
credit loss整个存续期已发生
信用减值金融资产
Credit-impaired 
ﬁnancial assets 
(Lifetime expected 
credit loss)2021合计Total2021 年 1 月 1 日余额At 1 January 2021633,874,579165,762,74570,747,875870,385,1992021 年 1 月 1 日余额在本年 Opening balance on 1 January 2021- 转入第二阶段- 转入第三阶段- 转回第一阶段本年计提与转回收回以前年度核销汇率变动年末余额Transfer to Stage IITransfer to Stage IIITransfer to Stage ICharge/(reverse) during the yearRecovery of loans and advances 
previously written offExchange rate differenceClosing balance(21,295,801)21,295,801(13,715)71,766,207117,517,035-(71,766,207)(40,237,866)----801,848,30575,054,473-13,715----18,572,20495,851,3732,505(1,011,000)88,325,2992,505(1,011,000)965,228,077第一阶段
Stage I第二阶段
Stage II第三阶段
Stage III未来 12 个月
预期信用损失
12-month expected
credit loss整个存续期
预期信用损失
Lifetime expected
credit loss整个存续期已发生
信用减值金融资产
Credit-impaired 
ﬁnancial assets 
(Lifetime expected 
credit loss)2020合计Total2020 年 1 月 1 日余额At 1 January 2020647,273,12968,696,76264,768,941780,738,8322020 年 1 月 1 日余额在本年 Opening balance on 1 January 2020- 转入第二阶段- 转入第三阶段- 转回第一阶段本年计提与转回本年核销汇率变动年末余额Transfer to Stage IITransfer to Stage IIITransfer to Stage ICharge/(reverse) during the yearWriting off during the yearExchange rate differenceClosing balance(40,118,101)(2,700,344)14,853,47014,566,425--40,118,101(1,923,607)(14,853,470)73,724,959--633,874,579165,762,745-4,623,951-156,464,179(154,378,231)(730,965)70,747,875---244,755,563(154,378,231)(730,965)870,385,199第一阶段
Stage I第二阶段
Stage II第三阶段
Stage III未来 12 个月
预期信用损失
12-month expected
credit loss整个存续期
预期信用损失
Lifetime expected
credit loss整个存续期已发生
信用减值金融资产
Credit-impaired 
ﬁnancial assets 
(Lifetime expected 
credit loss)合计Total2020 年 12 月 31 日At 31 December 2020--2021 年 12 月 31 日At 31 December 202126,917,7639,484,937---36,402,7008. 其他债权投资(8) Other debt instrument at fair value through other comprehensive income中央银行票据及国债Central Bank bills and government bonds政策性银行及商业银行债券 Bonds issued by policy banks and commercial banks企业债同业存单Corporate bondsNegotiable certiﬁcate of deposits其他债权投资总额Total amount of other debt instrument at fair value 
through other comprehensive income应计利息Accrued interest31-12-20216,087,558,1702,220,682,06220,061,9201,979,906,38610,308,208,538128,563,39931-12-20205,749,522,5402,595,945,411-2,540,169,51010,885,637,461143,639,283其他债权投资账面价值Net value of other debt instrument at fair value 
through other comprehensive income10,436,771,93711,029,276,744于 2021 年 12 月 31 日及 2020 年 12 月 31 日，本公司将全部其他债权投
资纳入阶段一，按其未来 12 个月内预期信用损失计量减值准备。本年在其他综合收益中确认的利得金额为人民币 51,475,157 元（2020
年：损失金额为人民币 33,977,050 元），本年终止确认时从其他综合
收益转入当期损益的利得金额为人民币 86,536 元（2020 年：人民币
20,285,925 元）。As at 31 December 2021 and 31 December 2020, the Bank included all 
other debt instrument at fair value through other comprehensive income 
in Stage I, and measured the impairment losses based on expected credit 
losses in the next 12 months (12-month ECL).The amount of gains recognised in other comprehensive income in 2021 
was RMB51,475,157 (2020: the amount of loss RMB33,977,050), and the 
amount transferred from other comprehensive income to the current 
proﬁt was RMB86,536 (2020: RMB20,285,925).126127财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2021 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2021
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)9. 固定资产(9) Fixed assets10. 使用权资产(10) Right-of-use assets原价：Cost:2021 年 1 月 1 日At 1 January 2021本年增加Additions本年在建工程转入 ( 附注七、13.2)Transfer from construction in progress (Note 7.13.2)本年处置2021 年 12 月 31 日累计折旧：2021 年 1 月 1 日本年计提本年处置DisposalsAt 31 December 2021
Accumulated depreciation:At 1 January 2021AdditionsDisposals2021 年 12 月 31 日At 31 December 2021固定资产净值及净额
2021 年 12 月 31 日Net book value and net carrying amount
At 31 December 2021原价：Cost:2020 年 1 月 1 日At 1 January 2020本年增加Additions本年在建工程转入 ( 附注七、13.2) Transfer from construction in progress (Note 7.13.2)本年处置2020 年 12 月 31 日累计折旧：DisposalsAt 31 December 2020
Accumulated depreciation:2020 年 1 月 1 日At 1 January 2020本年计提本年处置AdditionsDisposals2020 年 12 月 31 日At 31 December 2020运输设备
Motor vehicles办公及电脑设备
Ofﬁce equipment and 
computers2020合计
Total2,538,181416,095-(400,453)2,553,8232,320,294154,563(400,453)2,074,404102,802,290105,340,4718,819,633212,542(6,858,894)104,975,57170,354,29511,877,651(6,706,502)75,525,4449,235,728212,542(7,259,347)107,529,39472,674,58912,032,214(7,106,955)77,599,848固定资产净值及净额
2020 年 12 月 31 日Net book value and net carrying amount
At 31 December 2020479,41929,450,12729,929,546128运输设备
Motor vehicles办公及电脑设备
Ofﬁce equipment and 
computers2021合计
Total2,553,823409,046-(480,778)2,482,0912,074,404156,854(480,778)1,750,480104,975,571107,529,39415,176,51515,585,56175,929(9,620,792)110,607,22375,525,44412,176,269(9,225,655)78,476,05875,929(10,101,570)113,089,31477,599,84812,333,123(9,706,433)80,226,538成本：Cost:2021 年 1 月 1 日At 1 January 2021本年增加本年减少AdditionsDisposals2021 年 12 月 31 日At 31 December 2021累计折旧：Accumulated depreciation:2021 年 1 月 1 日At 1 January 2021本年计提本年减少AdditionsDisposals2021 年 12 月 31 日At 31 December 2021731,61132,131,16532,862,776账面价值Net book value and net carrying amount2021 年 1 月 1 日At 1 January 20212021 年 12 月 31 日At 31 December 2021房屋及建筑物
Properties and buildings运输工具
Motor vehicles185,122,55417,730,139(16,864,808)185,987,88566,096,86963,847,175(16,864,808)113,079,236119,025,68572,908,6495,857,870637,399(2,583,063)3,912,2062,808,8521,716,430(2,583,063)1,942,2193,049,0181,969,987成本：Cost:2020 年 1 月 1 日At 1 January 2020本年增加本年减少AdditionsDisposals2020 年 12 月 31 日At 31 December 2020累计折旧：Accumulated depreciation:2020 年 1 月 1 日At 1 January 2020本年计提本年减少AdditionsDisposals2020 年 12 月 31 日At 31 December 2020账面价值Net book value and net carrying amount2020 年 1 月 1 日At 1 January 20202020 年 12 月 31 日At 31 December 2020房屋及建筑物
Properties and buildings运输工具
Motor vehicles101,474,258132,198,878(48,550,582)185,122,55432,814,33871,799,320(38,516,789)66,096,86968,659,920119,025,6856,615,6442,600,166(3,357,940)5,857,8703,061,8092,687,280(2,940,237)2,808,8523,553,8353,049,0182021合计
Total190,980,42418,367,538(19,447,871)189,900,09168,905,72165,563,605(19,447,871)115,021,455122,074,70374,878,6362020合计
Total108,089,902134,799,044(51,908,522)190,980,42435,876,14774,486,600(41,457,026)68,905,72172,213,755122,074,703129财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2021 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2021
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)11. 无形资产(11) Intangible assets12. 递延所得税资产(12) Deferred tax assets软件设备原价：年初余额本年购置SoftwareCost or valuation:Opening balanceAdditions20212020递延所得税资产Deferred tax assets235,618,418233,213,362其他金融资产减值准备贷款及拆放同业损失准备Allowance for impairment losses on loan 
and placementAllowance for impairment losses on other 
ﬁnancial assets6,910,127804,782预计负债Provisions以公允价值计量且其变动计入其
他综合收益的金融资产的未实现
损益Unrealised proﬁt or loss of ﬁnancial assets 
at fair value through other comprehensive 
income年初余额
Opening balance本年计入损益
Credited/(Charged)
to proﬁt or loss本年计入所有者权益
Credited/ (Charged)
to equity2021年末余额
Closing balance195,556,193(17,626,124)5,015,84517,708,06912,515,309(987,555)---177,930,06922,723,91411,527,754(304,665)-(12,850,200)(13,154,865)衍生金融工具公允价值变动损益 Changes in fair value of derivatives(2,340,821)(56,401,913)在建工程转入 ( 附注七、13.2)Transfer from construction in progress (Note 7.13.2)6,894,4361,600,274本年处置年末余额DisposalClosing balance累计摊销：Accumulated amortisation:(386,337)-249,036,644235,618,418年初账面余额Opening balance154,048,004130,573,694其他以公允价值计量且其变动
计入当期损益的金融工具的公
允价值变动Changes in fair value of other ﬁnancial 
instruments at fair value through proﬁt or 
loss预提职工工资及奖金预提费用其他合计Payroll payablesAccrued liabilitiesOthersTotal递延所得税资产Deferred tax assets(19,056,928)17,540,9484,607,5128,127,591253,745(2,135,794)(1,181,465)(2,453,046)-----(58,742,734)(1,515,980)4,861,2575,991,797(3,634,511)202,938,571(44,101,670)(12,850,200)145,986,701年初余额
Opening balance本年计入损益
Credited/(Charged)
to proﬁt or loss本年计入所有者权益
Credited/ (Charged)
to equity134,825,25760,730,9362,211,9799,287,5662,803,8663,227,743---(13,897,115)(25,641,204)3,005,3723,933,0844,453,793(3,932,321)-13,592,45023,300,383(22,062,300)674,4283,673,7982,750,856-----2020年末余额
Closing balance195,556,1935,015,84512,515,309(304,665)(2,340,821)(19,056,928)4,607,5128,127,591(1,181,465)114,246,41175,099,71013,592,450202,938,571AdditionsDisposals22,328,37123,474,310贷款及拆放同业损失准备其他金融资产减值准备Allowance for impairment losses on loan 
and placementAllowance for impairment losses on other 
ﬁnancial assets(386,337)-预计负债Provisions本年计提本年处置年末余额Closing balance175,990,038154,048,004无形资产净值及净额Net book value and net carrying amount73,046,60681,570,414以公允价值计量且其变动计入其
他综合收益的金融资产的未实现
损益Unrealised proﬁt or loss of ﬁnancial assets 
at fair value through other comprehensive 
income衍生金融工具公允价值变动损益 Changes in fair value of derivatives其他以公允价值计量且其变动
计入当期损益的金融工具的公
允价值变动Changes in fair value of other ﬁnancial 
instruments at fair value through proﬁt or 
loss预提职工工资及奖金预提费用其他合计Payroll payablesAccrued liabilitiesOthersTotal130131财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2021 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2021
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)13. 其他资产长期待摊费用在建工程其他应收款Long-term deferred expensesConstruction in processOther receivables待认证进项税额及增值税留抵税额 Input VAT to be veriﬁed and VAT retained合计Total(13) Other assets附注
Notes13.113.213.331-12-202131-12-202056,048,88011,760,35666,444,8424,070,698343,166,464658,649,84470,748,949133,849,490481,724,649863,014,87413.1 长期待摊费用(13.1) Long-term deferred expenses租入固定资产改良支出
Leasehold improvement其他
Others2021合计
Total1,786,4352,441,839(15,490)---1,786,4352,441,839(15,490)(11,929,739)(2,679,007)(14,608,746)52,381,2243,667,65656,048,880租入固定资产改良支出
Leasehold improvement76,979,996227,673218,090(577,810)其他
Others7,612,8171,429,631--2020合计
Total84,592,8131,657,304218,090(577,810)(16,749,770)(2,695,785)(19,445,555)60,098,1796,346,66366,444,842年初余额本年增加Opening balanceAdditions本年在建工程转入 ( 附注七、13.2)Transfer from construction in progress (Note 7.13.2)本年处置本年摊销年末余额年初余额本年增加DisposalAmortisationClosing balanceOpening balanceAdditions本年在建工程转入 ( 附注七、13.2)Transfer from construction in progress (Note 7.13.2)DisposalAmortisationClosing balance本年处置本年摊销年末余额13260,098,1796,346,66366,444,842应收及暂付款项Other receivable and prepayments减值准备年末净值Allowance for impairment lossesNet value13.2 在建工程年初余额本年增加Opening balanceAdditions转入固定资产（附注七、9）Transfer to ﬁxed assets (Note 7. 9)转入无形资产（附注七、11）Transfer to intangible assets (Note 7. 11)转入长期待摊费用（附注七、13.1）Transfer to long-term deferred expenses (Note 7. 13.1)转入管理费用年末净值13.3 其他应收款Transfer to administrative expensesNet closing balance(13.3) Other receivables(13.2) Construction in progress202120204,070,69817,266,759(75,929)(6,894,436)(2,441,839)(164,897)11,760,3562021344,804,494(1,638,030)343,166,4644,590,4728,310,964(212,542)(1,600,274)(218,090)(6,799,832)4,070,6982020662,353,313(3,703,469)658,649,844应收及暂付款项主要包括应收待结算及清算款项。应收及暂付款项的
账龄分析列示如下：Other receivable and prepayments mainly include items in the process of 
clearing and settlement. The aging analysis is as follows:账龄：1 年以内1-2 年2-3 年3 年以上小计减：减值准备合计AgingWithin 1 year1-2 years2-3 yearsMore than 3 yearsSub-totalLess: allowance for impairment lossesTotal31-12-2021318,592,0922,390,6892,792,30121,029,412344,804,494(1,638,030)343,166,46431-12-2020625,475,11214,724,4486,065,85016,087,903662,353,313(3,703,469)658,649,844133财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2021 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2021
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)其他应收款按照 12 个月预期信用损失及整个存续期预期信用损失计提
减值准备，减值准备的变动如下：The impairment provisions are measured according to the 12-month expected 
credit loss and lifetime expected credit loss. The movement of allowance for 
impairment losses is as follows:第一阶段
Stage I第二阶段
Stage II第三阶段
Stage III未来 12 个月预期信用损失整个存续期预期信用损失12-month expected credit lossLifetime expected credit loss整个存续期已发生信用
减值金融资产
Credit-impaired ﬁnancial assets
(Lifetime expected credit loss)2021合计Total年初余额本年转回收回以前
年度核销年末余额Opening BalanceReverse during the yearRecovery of other receivables 
previously written offEnding Balance3,703,469(2,065,439)-1,638,030-----3,703,469(103,304)(2,168,743)103,304103,304-1,638,030第一阶段
Stage I
未来 12 个月预期信用损失第二阶段
Stage II整个存续期预期信用损失12-month expected credit lossLifetime expected credit loss第三阶段
Stage III整个存续期已发生信用
减值金融资产
Credit-impaired ﬁnancial assets
(Lifetime expected credit loss)2020合计Total年初余额本年计提年末余额Opening BalanceAccrual during the yearEnding Balance1,569,8492,133,6203,703,469---14. 同业及其他金融机构存放款项(14) Due to banks and other ﬁnancial institutions境内银行同业及其他金融机构存放Due to domestic banks and other ﬁnancial institutions境外银行同业存放Due to overseas banks应付利息合计15. 拆入资金Interest payableTotal境内银行同业拆入及借入Placements from domestic banks境外银行同业拆入及借入Placements from overseas banksInterest payableTotal应付利息合计134---1,569,8492,133,6203,703,46931-12-20201,363,681,736258,906,5682,008,3211,624,596,62531-12-20201,663,122,50014,852,172,95876,834,47431-12-20211,770,957,679173,226,7512,087,2701,946,271,700(15) Placements from banks and other ﬁnancial institutions31-12-20212,069,448,5009,852,710,79892,805,92612,014,965,22416,592,129,93216. 交易性金融负债(16) Financial liabilities held-for-trading以公允价值计量且其变动计入当期损益的
金融负债：Financial liabilities at fair value through proﬁt or loss:31-12-202131-12-2020Placement from banks and other ﬁnancial institutions6,716,486,1973,504,079,654同业拆入卖出回购款项应付利息合计Repurchase agreementsInterest payableTotal17. 卖出回购金融资产款(17) Repurchase agreements按担保物分类：Classiﬁed by collateral:金融债券应付利息合计Financial BondInterest payableTotal18. 吸收存款(18) Customer deposits活期存款公司客户个人客户小计定期存款公司客户个人客户小计应付利息合计Current deposits:Corporate customersIndividual customersSub-totalTime deposits:Corporate customersIndividual customersSub-totalInterest payableTotal180,148,5013,113,977135,040,7255,111,7396,899,748,6753,644,232,11831-12-202131-12-20201,190,000,000494,609466,000,00069,7041,190,494,609466,069,70431-12-202131-12-202017,104,694,70212,542,347,375970,968,3281,283,471,50418,075,663,03013,825,818,87922,244,327,65920,681,490,5741,202,705,8261,753,377,45723,447,033,48522,434,868,031190,051,494202,461,78541,712,748,00936,463,148,695135财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2021 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2021
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)19. 应付职工薪酬(19) Payroll payables未付金额Amount unpaid工资、奖金、津贴和补贴Salary, bonus, subsidy and allowance社会保险费住房公积金Social insuranceHousing fund工会经费和职工教育经费Labour union expenditure and staff education fee设定提存计划Deﬁned contribution plan其中：基本养老保险费Of which: Pension fund企业年金缴费Annuity合计Total31-12-202131-12-2020131,192,9662,457,510--21,986,1594,256,56017,729,599155,636,63584,663,4832,688,118--16,692,797851,74915,841,048104,044,39820212020应付金额Amount payable工资、奖金、津贴和补贴Salary, bonus, subsidy and allowance562,046,332575,975,628社会保险费住房公积金Social insuranceHousing fund工会经费和职工教育经费Labour union expenditure and staff education fee设定提存计划Deﬁned contribution plan其中：基本养老保险费Of which: Pension fund企业年金缴费Annuity其他与员工相关的费用Other staff related expenses合计Total(20) Tax payablesValue added taxTax surchargesCorporate income taxWithholding taxOthersTotal20. 应交税费增值税附加税企业所得税代扣代缴税项其他合计13628,284,04828,632,0664,475,58262,152,59939,696,55022,456,04914,499,35021,581,47428,889,2423,695,46327,947,7494,010,12923,937,62017,999,393700,089,977676,088,94931-12-202125,466,3343,047,74616,176,79026,757,644247,52331-12-202024,694,4992,981,43779,510,30029,168,540522,16571,696,037136,876,94121. 应付债券金融债二级资本债同业存单合计(21) Debt securities issuedFinancial bondTier-two capital bond31-12-202131-12-2020-1,034,426,9091,003,792,3751,003,283,794Negotiable certiﬁcates of deposit716,639,054-Total1,720,431,4292,037,710,703于 2021 年 12 月 31 日，应付债券余额列示如下：As at 31 December 2021, the amount of debt securities issued listed below:发行日期
Issue date2019/11/15债券期限
Tenor发行金额
Issue amount本年发行
Issue amount during 
the year本年计提利息
Accrued interest本年偿还 / 支付利息
Repayment年末余额
Closing balance10 年 (10 years)1,000,000,000-48,000,000(48,000,000)1,003,792,3752019 年 11 月 15 日发行的第一期二级资本债属于 10 年期固定利率债券，
面值为人民币 100 元，票面利率为 4.8%，每年付息一次。本行在满
足相关条件下有权选择在第 5 年末按面值提前一次性部分或全部赎
回本期债券。The tier-two capital bond issued on 15 November 2019 is a 10-year bond with 
RMB100 par value and interest is paid annually at a ﬁxed rate of 4.8 per cent 
per annum. The bond is redeemable at par at the option of the Bank, in part 
or in whole, at the end of the 5th year subject to the relevant conditions.本公司于 2021 年度在全国银行间市场发行 7 期人民币同业存单，面
值均为人民币 100 元，贴息发行。Seven negotiable certificates of deposit were issued in 2021. The par value 
was RMB100 and the interest rate was zero.本公司应付债券没有出现拖欠本金、利息，或赎回款项的违约情况。The Bank did not default on any principal, interest or redemption amounts 
with respect to its debt securities issued.137财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2021 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2021
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)22. 预计负债(22) Provisions23. 租赁负债(23) Lease liabilities信用承诺及财务担保减值准备：Allowance for impairment losses on loan commitments and ﬁnancial 
guarantee contracts:年初余额Opening balance本年 ( 减少 )/ 增加(Decrease)/increase during the year年末余额Closing balance信用承诺及财务担保按照 12 个月预期信用损失及整个存续期预期信
用损失计提减值准备，减值准备的变动如下：2021202050,061,23437,150,266(3,950,218)12,910,96846,111,01650,061,234The allowance for impairment losses on loan commitments and financial 
guarantee contracts are measured according to the 12-month expected 
credit loss and lifetime expected credit loss. The movement of allowance for 
impairment losses are as follows:第一阶段
Stage I未来 12 个月
预期信用损失
12-month expected
credit loss第二阶段
Stage II第三阶段
Stage III整个存续期
预期信用损失
Lifetime expected
credit loss整个存续期已发生
信用减值金融资产
Credit-impaired ﬁnancial assets 
(Lifetime expected credit loss)2021合计Total房屋及建筑物Properties and buildings运输工具合计24. 其他负债Motor vehiclesTotal待结算及清算款项Settlement and clearing应付 IT 系统服务费IT system service fee预提费用装修尾款其他合计Accrued expenseRenovation payableOthersTotal(24) Other liabilities31-12-202171,139,9502,067,80573,207,75531-12-2021518,112,20054,918,06120,099,2821,435,73735,040,980629,606,26031-12-2020115,247,1573,185,820118,432,97731-12-2020448,401,76251,713,23821,502,725632,86560,952,909583,203,4992021 年 1 月 1 日 余额Opening balance本年计提 /( 转回 )Accrued/(Reverse)年末余额Closing balance39,748,3902,146,94941,895,3396,832,673(6,097,167)735,5063,480,17146,111,0163,480,17150,061,23425. 实收资本(25) Paid-up capital-(3,950,218)注册及实收资本Paid-up capital31-12-202131-12-2020第一阶段
Stage I
未来 12 个月
预期信用损失
12-month expected
credit loss第二阶段
Stage II第三阶段
Stage III整个存续期
预期信用损失
Lifetime expected
credit loss整个存续期已发生
信用减值金融资产
Credit-impaired ﬁnancial assets 
(Lifetime expected credit loss)2020合计Total2020 年 1 月 1 日 余额Opening balance本年计提年末余额AccruedClosing balance33,207,2306,541,16039,748,390462,8656,369,8086,832,6733,480,17137,150,266-12,910,9683,480,17150,061,234大华银行有限公司 United Overseas Bank Limited等值人民币
RMB equivalent5,500,000,000%100等值人民币
RMB equivalent5,500,000,000%100上述实收资本已由上海诺德会计师事务所验证，并于 2015 年 6 月 25
日出具了沪诺德验字 (2015) 第 073 号验资报告。The above paid-up capital has been verified by Shanghai Nortex Certified 
Public Accounts Co., Ltd., and the Capital Verification Report No 073 of 
Shanghai Nortex (2015) was issued on 25 June 2015.26. 资本公积资本公积系本公司为换取员工服务，实施的股份支付计划下，以权益
结算的股份支付计入资本公积的余额。(26) Capital reserveIn exchange for employee service, the Bank runs a share-based compensation 
program which is equity settled with a corresponding charge to the capital 
reserve.138139财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2021 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2021
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)27. 其他综合收益(27) Other comprehensive income28. 盈余公积(28) Surplus reserves资产负债表中其他综合收益累积余额：Accumulated balance of other comprehensive income in the balance sheet:1-1-2021增减变动
Increase/(decrease)31-12-2021913,99438,550,60039,464,5941,277,6242,191,61827,292,89165,843,4911-1-2020增减变动
Increase/(decrease)28,570,51568,035,10931-12-202041,691,345(40,777,351)913,994年初余额本年增加年末余额Opening balanceIncreaseClosing balance根据公司法和本公司章程的规定，并经 2022 年 3 月 25 日董事会决议，
本公司按净利润的 10% 提取法定盈余公积金。法定盈余公积累计额
为本公司注册资本 50% 以上的，可不再提取。本公司在提取法定盈余公积金后，可提取任意盈余公积金。经批准，
任意盈余公积金可用于弥补以前年度亏损或增加股本。根据本公司
董事会会议的决议，本年度不提取任意盈余公积金。2021138,385,48833,290,248171,675,7362020127,512,35310,873,135138,385,488According  to the Company Law of the PRC  and  the  Bank's  Articles 
of Association, accompanied with resolution passed by the Board of 
Directors on 25 March 2022, the Bank has appropriated 10 per cent of its 
net proﬁt to the statutory surplus reserves. The Bank should appropriate 
until the reserve balance reaches 50 per cent of its registered capital or 
above.After the statutory surplus reserves are appropriated,  the  Bank  may 
appropriate discretionary surplus reserves. Discretionary surplus reserves 
can be used to compensate for the accumulated losses of previous years 
or convert to capital upon approval. It has been determined by the Board 
of Directors of the Bank that no discretionary surplus reserves are to be 
appropriated this year.以公允价值计量且其变动计入
其他综合收益的债务工具投资
公允价值变动Change in the fair value of debt investments 
at fair value through other comprehensive 
income以公允价值计量且其变动计入
其他综合收益的债务工具投资
信用损失准备Credit impairment losses of debt 
investments at fair value through other 
comprehensive income合计Total以公允价值计量且其变动计入
其他综合收益的债务工具投资
公允价值变动Change in the fair value of debt investments 
at fair value through other comprehensive 
income以公允价值计量且其变动计入
其他综合收益的债务工具投资
信用损失准备Credit impairment losses of debt 
investments at fair value through other 
comprehensive income合计Total2021以公允价值计量且其变动计入
其他综合收益的债务工具投资
公允价值变动Change in the fair value of debt investments 
at fair value through other comprehensive 
income以公允价值计量且其变动计入
其他综合收益的债务工具投资
信用损失准备Credit impairment losses of debt 
investments at fair value through other 
comprehensive income合计Total利润表中其他综合收益当期发生额：Other comprehensive income in the income statement:1,197,50542,888,85080,119(40,697,232)税前金额Before tax减：前期计入其他综
合收益当期转入损益
Less: Transfer to 
proﬁt or loss减：所得税Less: Income Tax1,277,6242,191,618税后金额After tax29. 一般风险准备(29) General reserves年初余额本年增加年末余额Opening balanceIncreaseClosing balance2021849,267,92029,007,929878,275,8492020816,675,49232,592,428849,267,92051,487,336(86,536)(12,850,200)38,550,60036,390,52187,877,857-(9,097,630)27,292,891(86,536)(21,947,830)65,843,491本公司依照财金 [2012]20 号文《金融企业准备金计提管理办法》的
规定，从税后利润中按原则上不低于风险资产期末余额 1.5% 的比例
计提一般风险准备，作为利润分配处理。本公司根据 2022 年 3 月 25
日的董事会决议，提取一般风险准备计人民币 29,007,929 元，一般风
险准备余额已达到风险资产期末余额 1.5%。According to the regulation CaiJin [2012] No 20 Financial institution 
provision measurement Guideline, the Bank is required to set aside general 
reserves of at least 1.5 per cent of its total risk assets at year end from net 
proﬁt. The Bank appropriated general reserve amounting to RMB29,007,929 
according to the resolution passed by the Board of Directors on 25 March 
2022 and the amount has been up to 1.5 per cent of its total risk assets.2020以公允价值计量且其变动计入
其他综合收益的债务工具投资
公允价值变动Change in the fair value of debt investments 
at fair value through other comprehensive 
income以公允价值计量且其变动计入
其他综合收益的债务工具投资
信用损失准备Credit impairment losses of debt 
investments at fair value through other 
comprehensive income税前金额Before tax减：前期计入其他综
合收益当期转入损益
Less: Transfer to  
proﬁt or loss减：所得税Less: Income Tax税后金额After tax(34,083,876)(20,285,925)13,592,450(40,777,351)106,826-(26,707)80,119Total(33,977,050)(20,285,925)13,565,743(40,697,232)合计140141财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2021 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2021
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)30. 未分配利润(30) Retained earnings32. 手续费及佣金净收入(32) Net fees and commission income上年年末未分配利润Retained earnings brought forward净利润Net proﬁt for the year2021548,490,064332,902,4722020483,224,277108,731,350减：提取法定盈余公积Less: Appropriation to statutory surplus reserves(33,290,248)(10,873,135)提取一般风险准备Less: Appropriation to general reserves年末未分配利润Closing balance of retained earnings(29,007,929)819,094,359(32,592,428)548,490,064根据《中华人民共和国公司法》及本公司的公司章程，本公司利润
在（1）满足所有税务责任；（2）弥补以前年度亏损；（3）提取法
定盈余公积金；（4）提取一般风险准备；（5）提取任意盈余公积金后，
可以利润分配形式分配给股东。一般风险准备及各项基金的提取比
例在符合有关法规的前提下，由本公司董事会决定。分配利润的决
定由本公司董事会决定，并参考营运结果、财务状况及其他有关的
原因而厘定。According to the Company Law of the PRC and the Articles of Association 
of the Bank, the proﬁt of the Bank can only be distributed to shareholders 
after (1) fulﬁlling all tax responsibilities; (2) compensating any accumulated 
losses; (3) making appropriation to statutory surplus reserves; (4) making 
appropriation  to  the  general  reserves;  (5)  making  appropriation  to 
discretionary surplus reserves. The appropriation ratios of the general 
reserves and surplus reserves are decided by the Bank's Board of Directors 
in compliance with relevant regulations. The profit appropriation is 
decided by the Board of Directors of the Bank, with reference to the 
operating performance, ﬁnancial positions, and other relevant factors.手续费及佣金收入：Fees and commission income:结算与清算手续费Settlement and clearing fees代理业务手续费Agency brokerage fees信用承诺手续费Credit commitment fees与授信有关的收入Credit related income托管及其他受托业务佣金Commissions of trusteeship and others其他小计OthersSub-total手续费及佣金支出：Fees and commission expense:手续费支出小计Fee expensesSub-total手续费及佣金净收入Net fees and commission income31. 利息净收入(31) Net interest income33. 投资收益(33) Investment income20212020衍生金融工具已实现净损益 Net realised (loss)/gain on derivatives债券及同业存单投资净收益 Net realised gain on bond and negotiable certiﬁcate of deposits其他合计OthersTotal2021202032,039,88112,829,74354,151,27347,338,88062,019,0363,681,34523,795,52718,193,57449,242,21451,297,66146,240,2054,615,334212,060,158193,384,51547,999,76147,999,76150,505,90450,505,904164,060,397142,878,61120212020(39,967,146)119,246,33065,072,09416,058,85641,163,80442,540,59118,794,993180,581,914利息收入：存放及拆放同业存放中央银行发放贷款和垫款买入返售债券债券及同业存单小计利息支出：Interest income:Due from and placement with banks and other ﬁnancial institutionsDeposit with the Central BankLoans and advances to customersReverse repurchase ﬁnancial assets – bondsBond and negotiable certiﬁcate of depositsSub-totalInterest expense:同业及其他金融机构往来Due to and placement from banks and other ﬁnancial institutions吸收存款Customer deposits债券及同业存单Bond and negotiable certiﬁcate of depositsLease liabilitiesSub-totalNet interest income租赁负债小计利息净收入142113,954,49955,672,971133,343,73154,036,0171,604,933,6221,605,760,45123,038,447294,627,05858,013,598304,188,9782,092,226,5972,155,342,775248,801,190657,740,93970,833,1953,568,032303,140,513735,978,487119,544,1965,059,618980,943,3561,163,722,8141,111,283,241991,619,96134. 公允价值变动净损益(34) Gain/(Loss) from changes in fair values衍生产品业务收入 - 公允价值变动损益 Changes of fair value of derivatives交易性金融负债 - 借入黄金Financial liabilities- held-for-trading-gold borrowing交易性金融负债 - 卖出回购Financial liabilities-Repurchase agreements20212020223,636,584(100,709,297)(24,547,214)(107,776)25,187,016(40,726)发放贷款及垫款 - 借出黄金Loans and advances to customers-gold lending22,744,865(25,680,361)交易性金融资产Financial assets held-for-trading合计Total(73,357,452)148,369,00793,892,092(7,351,276)143财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2021 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2021
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)35. 汇兑损益(35) Foreign exchange gain/(loss)39. 所得税费用(39) Income tax expenses汇兑损益包括外币交易因汇率变动而产生的损益以及外汇衍生金融工
具产生的损益。Foreign exchange gain/(loss) includes gain/(loss) of foreign business 
related to the changes of exchange rate and gain/(loss) arising from 
derivative ﬁnancial instruments.36. 其他收益(36) Other income与收益相关的政府补助Income-related on government subsidies合计Total20212,316,2432,316,24320203,434,6353,434,63537. 业务及管理费(37) General and administrative expenses当期所得税递延所得税合计Current income taxDeferred income tax expensesTotal202130,514,00435,004,04065,518,044202073,609,248(75,126,417)(1,517,169)所得税费用与利润总额的关系列示如下：The reconciliation of income tax expenses to proﬁt before tax is as follows:税前利润Proﬁt before tax按法定税率 25％计算的税项Tax charge on a tax rate at 25 per cent对以前期间税项的调整Adjustment in respect of prior periods2021398,420,51699,605,129476,4152020107,214,18126,803,54627,908免税的国债利息收入Tax-free interest income of government bonds(44,154,684)(37,255,680)不可抵扣的税项费用Non-deductible items所得税费用Income tax expenses9,591,18465,518,0448,907,057(1,517,169)员工费用折旧费Staff costsDepreciation无形资产摊销费Amortisation of intangible assets长期待摊费用摊销费Amortisation of long-term deferred expenses业务费用合计Other operating expensesTotal38. 信用减值损失(38) Credit impairment losses存放中央银行款项减值损失Impairment losses for deposit with the Central Bank存放同业减值损失拆放同业减值损失贷款减值损失Impairment losses for due from banks and other ﬁnancial institutionsImpairment losses for placements with banks20212020700,089,977676,088,94977,896,72822,328,37114,608,74686,518,81423,474,31019,445,555234,030,475232,253,4461,048,954,2971,037,781,0742021158,798(2,812,857)9,030,0232020(183,861)9,413,603(1,386,400)Impairment losses for loans132,254,073244,755,563信用承诺减值损失Impairment losses for credit commitment(3,950,218)12,910,968其他债权投资减值损失Impairment losses for other debt instrument at fair value through 
other comprehensive income买入返售金融资产减值损失Impairment losses for reverse repurchase ﬁnancial assets其他资产减值损失Impairment losses for other assets(12,179)(134,989)(2,168,743)106,826(148,285)2,133,620合计Total132,363,908267,602,034144145财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2021 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2021
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)40. 现金流量表补充资料(40) Supplementary information for the statement of cash ﬂows41. 现金及现金等价物(41) Cash and cash equivalent现金现金等价物：CashCash equivalents:原期限在三个月以内的With original maturity less than three months31-12-20212,039,98231-12-20204,163,644存放同业款项拆出资金买入返售金融资产拆出黄金Due from banks and other ﬁnancial institutions3,370,903,4253,487,356,308Placements with banks and other ﬁnancial institutions7,032,532,5633,628,910,218Reverse repurchase ﬁnancial assets1,432,091,0002,271,360,000Gold lending-27,499,014债券及同业存单投资（从购买日起三个月内到期）Bond and negotiable certiﬁcate of deposit investments 
(tenor within three months from purchase date)存放中央银行其他款项Other deposits with the Central Bank小计合计Sub-totalTotal149,793,3502,700,435,288648,072,570512,775,21914,685,755,62610,575,973,32914,687,795,60810,580,136,973本公司的股份支付计划包括限制性股票激励计划和股票增值权激励
计划。相关计划涉及的股份均系大华银行的股份。于 2021 年 12 月 31
日发行在外的限制性股票激励计划的股份数为 307,782 份，剩余合同
期限范围为 1 至 3 年；于 2021 年 12 月 31 日可行权的股票增值权为 0 份。Share-based compensation plans of the Bank comprise the Restricted 
Share Plan and the Share Appreciation Rights Plan. All shares involved are 
the shares of UOB. As at 31 December 2021, the number of outstanding 
grants of Restricted Shares was 307,782, the remaining contractual period 
of 1-3 years. As at 31 December 2021, the number of outstanding grants of 
Share Appreciation Rights was zero.Investment income(432,190,208)(368,039,062)42. 股份支付(42) Share-based compensation plans1、 将净利润调节为经营活动的现金流量： 1.Reconciliation of net proﬁt to cash ﬂows from operating activities：Net proﬁtCredit impairment lossFixed assets depreciation20212020332,902,472108,731,350132,363,908267,602,03412,333,12312,032,214净利润信用减值损失固定资产折旧使用权资产折旧无形资产摊销投资收益汇兑损益Right-of-use assets depreciation65,563,60574,486,600Amortisation expenses for intangible assets22,328,37123,474,310长期待摊费用摊销Amortisation for long-term deferred expenses14,608,74619,445,555处置固定资产 / 其他长期资产损失Losses on disposal of ﬁxed assets and other long-term assets320,391(3,991)债券、同业存单及租赁负债利息支出Interest expenses of bond, negotiable certiﬁcates of deposit 
and lease liabilities74,401,227124,603,814公允价值变动净损益(Gain)/loss from changes in fair value(148,369,007)7,351,276Foreign exchange loss/(gain)(130,196,787)(122,388,518)递延所得税款减少 /( 增加 )Decrease /(increase) in deferred tax assets/liabilities35,004,040(75,126,417)经营性应收项目的增加Increase in operating receivables(980,649,828)(692,141,067)经营性应付项目的增加Increase in operating payables4,965,856,7311,715,464,074经营活动产生的现金流量净额Net cash ﬂows from operating activities3,964,276,7841,095,492,1722、 现金及现金等价物净变动情况：2. Net change in cash and cash equivalents：现金的年末余额Cash on hand at end of year2,039,9824,163,644减：现金的年初余额Less：Cash on hand at beginning of year4,163,6446,161,298加：现金等价物的年末余额Add： Cash equivalents at end of year14,685,755,62610,575,973,329减：现金等价物的年初余额Less：Cash equivalents at beginning of year10,575,973,32910,961,925,974现金及现金等价物净增加 /( 减少 ) 增加额Net increase/ (decrease)  in cash and cash equivalents4,107,658,635(387,950,299)146147财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2021 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2021
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)八、分部报告8. Segment Information1. 分部业绩、资产及负债(1) Segment proﬁt and loss, assets and liabilities本公司根据内部组织结构、管理要求及内部报告制度确定了批发银
行业务分部、零售银行业务分部、环球金融业务分部及其他业务及
未分配项目共 4 个报告分部。每个报告分部为单独的业务分部，提
供不同的产品和劳务。本公司管理层将会定期审阅不同分部的财务
信息以决定向其配置资源、评价业绩。本公司报告分部的主要业务如下：批发银行业务分部
向各类企业提供包括贷款、贸易融资、存款服务、资金管理、外汇
买卖服务等金融服务。零售银行业务分部
向个人客户提供包括个人贷款、存款服务、银行卡服务、个人理财
服务和汇款等服务。环球金融业务分部
包括于银行间市场进行与资金业务相关的同业拆借交易、回购交易、
债务工具投资，以及外汇及贵金属产品、利率衍生产品的交易。其他业务及未分配项目分部
指不能直接归属上述某个分部或未能合理分配的资产、负债、收入
及支出。The Bank is organised into four different operating segments, namely 
wholesale  banking,  retail  banking,  global  markets,  and  others  and 
unallocated based on internal organisational structure, management 
requirement and internal reporting system. Every reporting segment, 
which is individual business segment, provides different products and 
services. Management periodically reviews the ﬁnancial information of the 
segments to determine resource allocation and performance assessment.The main businesses of the segments are as follows:Wholesale Banking
The wholesale banking segment provides products and services such 
as  corporate  loans,  trade  financing,  deposit-taking  activities,  fund 
management, foreign exchange services, etc.Retail Banking
The retail banking segment provides products and services such as retail 
loans, deposit-taking activities, bank cards, wealth management and 
remittance services, etc.Global Markets (GM)
The GM segment is responsible for conducting inter-bank placements, 
repurchase and reverse repurchase transactions and bond investments in 
the inter-bank market, and dealing foreign exchanges, precious metals and 
interest rate related derivatives, etc.为了评价各个分部的业绩及向其配置资源，本公司管理层会定期审
阅归属于各分部资产、负债、收入、费用及经营成果，这些信息的
编制基础如下：Others and unallocated
This segment represents the assets, liabilities, income and expenses that 
are not directly attributable or cannot be allocated on a reasonable basis 
to any of the above segments.分部资产主要包括归属于各分部的各项金融资产、有形资产、无形
资产和其他长期资产。分部负债包括归属于各分部的各项金融负债，
包括各项存款、拆入资金、各项应付款等。分部经营成果是指各个分部产生的收入（包括对外交易收入及分部
间的交易收入 )，扣除各个分部发生的直接费用（包括归属于各分部
的资产发生的折旧和摊销）、根据受益原则被分摊到的间接费用以
及资产减值损失。分部之间收入的转移定价按照与其他对外交易相
似的条款计算。In  order  to  assess  the  performance  of  the  segments  and  allocate 
resources, management will periodically review the assets, liabilities, 
income, expenses and ﬁnancial performance of the segments, and such 
information is prepared on the following basis:Segment assets mainly include ﬁnancial assets, tangible assets, intangible 
assets and other long-term assets which are attributable to the segments, 
while segment liabilities mainly include deposits, borrowings and other 
payables which are attributable to the segments.Segment financial performance refers to income generated by each 
segment (including external and inter-segment income), deducted by 
direct cost (including depreciation and amortisation pertaining to the 
assets  allocated  to  the  segments),  indirect  cost  allocated  based  on 
occupation  of  resources  and  asset  impairment  losses.  Transactions 
between segments are priced at similar terms as external transactions.批发银行业务零售银行业务环球金融业务Wholesale 
BankingRetail BankingGM其他业务及
未分配项目
Others and 
unallocated2021合计Total一、营业收入1. Operating income1,011,902,980179,471,692215,134,106191,032,6181,597,541,396利息净收入Net interest income773,518,535107,364,661(13,884,678)244,284,7231,111,283,241其中：对外利息净收入Of which: External interest income755,466,971209,859,329326,963,150(181,006,209)1,111,283,241分部间利息净收入Internal interest income18,051,564(102,494,668)(340,847,828)425,290,932-手续费及佣金净收入Net fee and commission income125,110,73066,620,785(41,226,856)13,555,738164,060,397其他净收入Other net income113,273,7155,486,246270,245,640(66,807,843)322,197,758二、营业支出2.Operating expenses(537,906,899)(174,896,627)(134,777,651)(349,351,501)(1,196,932,678)其中：信用减值损失Of which: Credit impairment losses(55,794,359)9,550,0153. Net non-operating income/(expenses)124,0081,876,005-9(86,119,564)(132,363,908)(4,188,224)(2,188,202)4.5.6.Proﬁt before tax474,120,0896,451,07080,356,464(162,507,107)398,420,516Depreciation and amortisation21,911,11118,609,8731,726,93572,585,926114,833,845Capital expenditure3,198,8842,765,578514,63235,063,13841,542,2327.  Total assets8.Total liabilities36,730,302,0024,823,078,184  37,281,048,116(614,308,978)78,220,119,32441,265,998,5572,224,679,131  19,007,560,1318,266,126,11870,764,363,937三、净营业外收支四、税前利润五、折旧与摊销费用六、资本支出七、资产总额八、负债总额批发银行业务零售银行业务环球金融业务Wholesale 
BankingRetail BankingGM其他业务及
未分配项目
Others and 
unallocated2020合计Total一、营业收入1. Operating income913,379,785172,819,853189,649,200157,703,5251,433,552,363利息净收入Net interest income681,429,534107,654,6319,590,355192,945,441991,619,961其中：对外利息净收入Of which: External interest income674,283,529228,592,031358,793,546(270,049,145)991,619,961分部间利息净收入Internal interest income7,146,005(120,937,400)(349,203,191)462,994,586-手续费及佣金净收入Net fee and commission income126,705,22857,561,052(44,031,191)2,643,522142,878,611其他净收入Other net income105,245,0237,604,170224,090,036(37,885,438)299,053,791二、营业支出2. Operating expenses(644,232,881)(230,462,497)(119,968,927)(325,421,601)(1,320,085,906)其中：信用减值损失Of which: Credit impairment losses(210,272,500)10,983,6093. Net non-operating income/(expenses)(399,921)(5,240,481)-1(68,313,143)(267,602,034)(611,875)(6,252,276)4.5.6.Proﬁt before tax268,746,983(62,883,125)69,680,274(168,329,951)107,214,181Depreciation and amortisation19,995,81033,969,0881,767,41973,706,362129,438,679Capital expenditure463,375262,2131,718,96812,336,29114,780,8477.  Total assets8.Total liabilities34,976,961,0175,704,907,25339,461,051,278344,623,04280,487,542,59034,802,359,8843,108,556,23622,428,694,27513,092,260,05673,431,870,451三、净营业外收支四、税前利润五、折旧与摊销费用六、资本支出七、资产总额八、负债总额148149财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2021 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2021
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)2. 其他信息(1)  地理信息(2) Other information(1)  External operation income by geography对外营业收入是按照客户所在地为基础分配至相应的国家或地区，
本公司按不同地区列示的有关取得的对外营业收入 /( 支出 ) 的信
息如下：External operation income is distributed to respective countries and 
regions by their geography locations. The external operation income/
(expense) which divided by different geography locations is shown as 
follows:对外营业收入 /（支出）External operation income/(expense)境内境外合计DomesticOverseasTotal于资产负债表日，本公司没有中国境外的非流动资产。(2) 主要客户信息在以摊余成本计量和以公允价值计量且其变动计入其他综合收益
的贷款中，本公司来源于年末十大企业贷款客户的利息收入为人
民币 1.77 亿元（2020 年度：人民币 2.00 亿元），占本公司贷款
利息收入的 11%（2020 年度：12%）。20211,502,910,52294,630,8741,597,541,39620202,177,115,078(743,562,715)1,433,552,363The Bank does not have any non-current asset held outside Mainland China 
as at the balance sheet date.(2)  Major customers' informationAmong loans and advances to customers measured at amortised cost 
and fair value through other comprehensive income, interest income 
amounting to RMB177 million comes from top 10 largest corporate 
loan customers (2020: RMB200 million), which contributed 11 per cent 
of the total loan interest income for the year (2020:12 per cent).九、承诺及或有负债9. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities1. 财务承诺资本性支出承诺已批准但未签约已签约但未拨付合计2. 信贷承诺财务担保合同：银行承兑汇票保函款项备用信用证开出即期信用证开出远期信用证小计(1) Commitments(2) Credit commitmentsCapital commitmentsApproved but not contractedContracted but not provided forTotalFinancial guarantee contracts:Banker's acceptanceLetter of guaranteeStandby letter of creditLetter of credit, at sightLetter of credit, usanceSub-total不可撤销的贷款承诺：Irrevocable loan commitments with original maturity of:原到期日在 1 年或以上More than one year小计合计Sub-totalTotal31-12-20211,669,485-1,669,48531-12-2020-8,019,2828,019,28231-12-202131-12-20202,517,539,7981,925,481,9626,599,277,9181,397,501,025218,633,6941,536,186,4711,077,626,3325,530,545,339346,850,487693,611,22812,658,434,3979,184,819,8571,424,261,4001,424,261,4002,285,556,6792,285,556,67914,082,695,79711,470,376,536信贷承诺的信贷风险加权金额Weighted credit risk of credit commitments6,487,881,1534,764,764,603财务担保合同具有担保性质，一旦客户未按其与受益人签订的合同
偿还债务或履行约定义务时，银行需履行担保责任。贷款承诺是指本公司作出的在未来为客户提供约定数额贷款的承诺。
贷款承诺一般附有有效期或终止条款，可能在到期前无需履行，故
合同约定的贷款承诺总金额并不一定代表未来的预期现金流出。Financial guarantee contracts, with the nature of guarantee, require the 
Bank to be obliged to fulﬁl the customers' responsibility as guarantor in 
case that the customers fail to repay the contracted amount or fail to 
fulﬁl their obligations.Loan  commitments  represent  the  commitment  made  by  the  Bank 
to its customer to grant a certain amount of loan in the future. Loan 
commitments are normally attached with an effective date or termination 
clause,  and  it  is  possible  that  the  Bank  may  not  need  to  fulfil  such 
commitment  on  the  maturity  date.  Hence,  the  amount  of  the  loan 
commitments does not necessarily represent the future expected cash 
outﬂow.150151财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2021 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2021
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)3. 受托业务委托资金委托贷款Entrusted depositsEntrusted loans委托理财资金委托理财资产Entrusted fundEntrusted asset31-12-202110,572,884,93810,572,884,93831-12-20212,144,798,4722,144,798,47231-12-20202,448,862,0872,448,862,08731-12-20201,679,654,3451,679,654,345(3) Entrusted business十、资本管理10. Capital Management委托资金是指存款者存于本公司的款项，仅用于向存款者指定的第三
方发放贷款之用。贷款相关的信贷风险由资金委托人承担。Entrusted deposits represent funds from depositors, which depositors 
have instructed the Bank to grant loans to third parties designated by 
them. The credit risk remains with the depositors.委托理财业务是指本公司按照与客户事先约定的投资计划和方式，以
客户支付的本金进行投资和资产管理，投资收益由本公司代为收取，
根据约定条件和实际投资收益向客户支付收益的业务。4. 或有负债Entrusted wealth management business is the investment product according 
to the agreed investing plan with the clients. The investment principal is paid 
by the customers, which would be managed by the Bank. The Bank would 
receive the investment proﬁt on behalf of the customers and pay the proﬁt 
to the customers based on the agreed conditions.于 2021 年底，本公司除附注七、22 信贷承诺及财务担保披露的或有
负债外，并无其他或有负债。(4) Contingent liabilitiesAs at 31 December 2021, there was no other contingent liabilities except for 
items that have been disclosed in Note 7.22.152本公司采用足够能够防范本公司经营业务的固有风险的资本管理办
法，并且对于资本的管理符合监管当局的要求。本公司资本管理的
目标除了符合监管当局的要求之外，还必须保持能够保障经营的资
本充足率和使股东权益最大化。视乎经济环境的变化和面临的风险
特征，本公司将积极调整资本结构。The Bank has adopted a strong capital management method to mitigate the 
inherent risk in the business operation and complied with the requirements 
of regulatory authorities on capital management. The Bank also targets to 
maintain sufficient capital adequacy ratio for operations and optimising 
shareholders' value. The Bank may adjust its capital structure actively to adapt 
with the change of economic environment and related risk characteristics.本公司按照《商业银行资本管理办法（试行）》的规定，进行资本
充足率信息披露工作并持续完善信息披露内容。银保监会要求商业
银行核心一级资本充足率不得低于 5%，一级资本充足率不得低于 6%，
资本充足率不得低于 8%，储备资本达到 2.5%。本公司财务部负责对资本项目进行管理。核心一级资本包括实收资
本、资本公积可计入部分、其他综合收益可计入部分、盈余公积、
一般风险准备和未分配利润；本公司无其他一级资本；二级资本主
要包括二级资本工具及其溢价可计入金额和超额贷款减值准备。本公司按照《商业银行资本管理办法（试行）》的规定，计算的资
本充足率情况如下：The Bank calculates and discloses capital adequacy ratio according to 
Regulations Governing Capital of Commercial Banks (Provisional). CBIRC 
requires that a commercial bank's core tier-one capital adequacy ratio, 
tier-one capital adequacy ratio and capital adequacy ratio should not be 
lower than ﬁve per cent, six per cent, and eight per cent respectively, and 
capital conservation ratio should reach 2.5 per cent.The Finance Department is responsible for managing the capital of the Bank. 
Core tier-one capital includes paid-up capital, qualified capital reserve, 
qualiﬁed other comprehensive income, surplus reserves, general reserves and 
retained earnings. The Bank has no other tier-one capital. Tier-two capital 
mainly includes surplus provision for loan impairment, qualified Tier-two 
capital instruments and their premium.The capital adequacy ratios calculated by the Bank in accordance with 
Regulations Governing Capital of Commercial Banks (Provisional) are as 
follows:核心一级资本实收资本资本公积可计入部分其他综合收益可计入部分盈余公积一般风险准备未分配利润Core tier-one capitalPaid-up capitalQualiﬁed capital reserveQualiﬁed other comprehensive incomeSurplus reservesGeneral reservesRetained earnings核心一级资本扣除项目Core tier-one capital deductions其他无形资产核心一级资本净额一级资本净额二级资本Other intangible assetsNet core tier-one capitalNet tier-one capitalTier-two capital二级资本工具及其溢价可计入金额Qualiﬁed tier-two capital instruments and their premium超额贷款减值准备Surplus provision for loan impairment总资本净额风险加权资产Net capitalRisk-weighted assets其中：信用风险加权资产Of which: Credit risk-weighted assets市场风险加权资产操作风险加权资产核心一级资本充足率一级资本充足率资本充足率Market risk-weighted assetsOperational risk-weighted assetsCore tier-one capital adequacy ratioTier-one capital adequacy ratioCapital adequacy ratio31-12-20217,455,755,3875,500,000,00018,674,33468,035,109171,675,736878,275,849819,094,35973,046,60673,046,6067,382,708,7817,382,708,7811,595,144,372998,137,580597,006,7928,977,853,15356,008,171,98248,357,550,1604,930,553,3222,720,068,50013.2%13.2%16.0%31-12-20207,055,672,1395,500,000,00017,337,0492,191,618138,385,488849,267,920548,490,06481,570,41481,570,4146,974,101,7256,974,101,7251,557,825,490997,629,000560,196,4908,531,927,21552,065,065,80445,375,915,6704,203,269,5712,485,880,56313.4%13.4%16.4%153十一、金融风险管理金融工具风险11. Financial Risk ManagementRisk of ﬁnancial instruments本公司在日常活动中面临各种金融工具的风险，主要包括是信用风险、
流动性风险及市场风险 ( 包括汇率风险、利率风险、商品风险 )。本公
司的主要金融工具包括货币资金、存放中央银行款项、存放同业款项、
拆出资金、衍生金融资产、买入返售金融资产、发放贷款和垫款、其
他债权投资等。与这些金融工具相关的风险，以及本公司为降低这些
风险所采取的风险管理策略如下所述。本公司的金融工具导致的主要风险是信用风险、流动性风险及市场风
险。本公司对此的风险管理政策概述如下。The Bank is exposed to different types of risks. The most signiﬁcant types of 
risk related to ﬁnancial instruments are credit risk, liquidity risk and market 
risk (including foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and commodity risk). 
The Bank's ﬁnancial instruments mainly include cash, deposit with the Central 
Bank, due from banks and other ﬁnancial institutions, placements with banks 
and other ﬁnancial institutions, derivative ﬁnancial assets, reverse repurchase 
ﬁnancial assets, loans and advances to customers, other debt instrument at 
fair value through other comprehensive income, and etc. These risks and the 
Banks strategy to minimise the negative impacts of the underlying ﬁnancial 
risks are described below.The most signiﬁcant types of risks to the Bank are credit risk, liquidity risk and 
market risk. The Bank's risk management strategy is outlined below.财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2021 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2021
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)本公司的资本充足率及相关数据是以按中国会计准则编制的法定财
务报表为基础进行计算的。本年度，本公司遵守了监管部门规定的
资本要求。此外，本公司根据中国银保监会颁布的《商业银行杠杆率管理办法》
（银监会令 2011 年第 3 号）计算并披露杠杆率信息。截止 2021 年 12
月 31 日，本公司的杠杆率为 7.4%，符合最低 4.0% 的法规要求，相关
信息如下：The capital adequacy ratios and related components of the Bank are 
calculated based on the statutory financial statements prepared under the 
Chinese Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises. During the period, the 
Bank has complied with the capital requirements imposed by the regulator.In addition, the Bank calculates and discloses leverage ratio according to 
Regulations Governing Leverage Ratio of Commercial Banks (CBIRC Ordinance 
[2011] No 3). As at 31 December 2021, the Bank's leverage ratio was 7.4 per cent 
which was higher than the minimum regulatory requirement of 4.0 per cent. 
The relevant information is as follows:核心一级资本Core tier-one capital31-12-202131-12-20207,455,755,3877,055,672,1391. 信用风险1.1 信用风险管理减：核心一级资本扣除项目Less: Core tier-one capital deductions(73,046,606)(81,570,414)核心一级资本净额Net core tier-one capital7,382,708,7816,974,101,725调整后表内资产余额Adjusted on balance sheet items72,173,237,99466,567,475,835调整后表外项目余额Adjusted off balance sheet items15,753,932,07612,592,163,046衍生产品资产余额Balance of derivatives10,179,423,20018,014,024,000证券融资交易资产余额Balance of assets in securities ﬁnancing transactions1,566,510,9782,346,723,700合计杠杆率TotalLeverage ratio99,673,104,24899,520,386,5817.4%7.0%信用风险是债务人或交易对手违约的风险，主要指银行的借款人
或交易对手不能按事先达成的协议履行其到期的财务义务的潜在
可能性。本公司的信用风险主要来自于发放贷款和垫款，表外项
目的信用风险主要来自于开出信用证、各项担保款项和贷款承诺。(1) Credit risk(1.1) Credit risk management信用风险的集中程度：当一定数量的客户在进行相同的经营活动
时，或处于相同的地理位置上或其行业具有相似的经济特性使其
履行合约的能力会受到同一经济变化的影响。信用风险的集中程
度反映了银行业绩对某一特定行业或地理位置的敏感程度。本公司严格的授信前审查制度、授权审批制度和贷后的跟踪和
上报机制有效地降低和防范了信用风险。本公司定期对客户的
经营状况进行检查，对贷款质量进行分析并提取充足的贷款损
失准备金。财务担保及贷款承诺产生的风险在实质上与贷款和垫款的风险相
似。因此，该类交易的申请、贷后管理以及抵质押担保要求等需
要与贷款和垫款业务相同。Credit risk is the risk of loss arising from a borrower's or counterparty's 
inability to meet its financial obligations as and when they fall due. 
The Bank's credit risk exposure mainly arises from loans and advances 
to customers. Credit risk of off balance sheet items mainly arises from 
the letters of credit/guarantees issued as well as loan commitments.Credit  risk  concentration  refers  to  the  situation  whereby  there 
is  a  concentration  of  customers  in  the  same  business  activities, 
geographical  location,  or  industry  sector  with  similar  economic 
characteristics such that their repayment ability would be affected by 
the same economic ﬂuctuations. Credit risk concentration reﬂects the 
sensitivity of the Bank's performance to such customer concentration.The Bank establishes a comprehensive set of policies and procedures 
which effectively mitigate and control credit risk. The procedures 
cover credit evaluation, credit approval, credit monitoring as well 
as reporting. The Bank reviews the borrowers' business operations 
periodically, analyses the quality of credit portfolio and ensures 
adequacy of loan loss provisions.The risk from ﬁnancial guarantee and loan commitments is similar with 
that from loans and advances to customers. Hence, the Bank adopts 
the same policies and procedures for managing credit contingencies 
which  cover  application,  follow-up  monitoring  and  collateral 
requirements, etc.154155财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2021 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2021
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)根据信用风险是否发生显著增加以及是否已发生信用减值，本公
司对不同的资产分别以 12 个月或整个存续期的预期信用损失计量
减值准备。预期信用损失计量的关键参数包括违约概率、违约损
失率和违约风险敞口。本公司考虑历史统计数据 ( 如交易对手评级、
担保方式及抵质押物类别、还款方式等 ) 的定量分析及前瞻性信息，
建立违约概率、违约损失率及违约风险敞口模型。相关定义如下：•  违约概率是指债务人在未来 12 个月或在整个剩余存续期，无法
履行其偿付义务的可能性。本公司的违约概率以信贷周期指数
Z 值为基础进行调整，加入前瞻性信息，以反映当前宏观经济
环境下债务人违约概率；•  违约损失率是指本公司对违约风险暴露发生损失程度作出的预
期。根据交易对手的类型、追索的方式和优先级，以及担保品
的不同，违约损失率也有所不同。违约损失率为违约发生时风
险敞口损失的百分比；•  违约风险敞口是指，在未来 12 个月或在整个剩余存续期中，在违约发生时，本公司应被偿付的金额。信用风险显著增加的评估及预期信用损失的计算均涉及前瞻性信
息。本公司通过进行历史数据分析，识别出影响各行业、各业务
类型信用风险及预期信用损失的关键经济指标。这些经济指标对违约概率和违约损失率的影响，对不同的行业、
业务类型有所不同。本公司在此过程中应用了宏观数据及专家判
断开展分析，形成预测模型以及分析范式，每年定期获取新的输
入数据，并按照规范考量专家建议，将前瞻性因素作用于违约概
率和违约损失率的计算过程中。Depending on whether the credit risk has significantly increased 
and whether the asset is credit-impaired, the Bank measures the 
impairment provision for different assets with expected credit loss of 
12 months or lifetime, respectively. The key parameters of expected 
credit  loss  measurement  include  probability  of  default(PD),  loss 
given default(LGD) and exposure at default(EAD). The Bank takes into 
account the quantitative analysis of historical statistics (such as ratings 
of counterparties, manners of guarantees and types of collaterals, 
repayments, etc.) and forward-looking information in order to establish 
the models for estimating PD, LGD and EAD.Relative deﬁnitions are listed as below:•  The probability of default refers to the possibility that the debtor 
will not be able to fulﬁl its obligation of repayment in the next 12 
months or the whole remaining lifetime. The Bank's PD is adjusted 
based on the credit cycle index Z and forward-looking information 
to reﬂect the default probability of the debtor under the current 
macroeconomic environment;•  The loss given default refers to the Bank's expectation of the extent 
of the loss resulting from the default exposure. Depending on the 
type of counterparty, the method and priority of the recourse, and 
the type of collaterals, the LGD varies. The loss given default is the 
percentage of risk exposure loss when default occurs;•  The exposure at default is the amount that the Bank should be 
reimbursed in the next 12 months or throughout the remaining 
lifetime when the default occurs.The  assessment  of  significant  increases  in  credit  risk  and  the 
calculation of expected credit losses both involve forward-looking 
information. Through the analysis of historical data, the Bank identiﬁes 
the key macroeconomic indicators that affect the credit risk and 
expected credit loss of various industries and business types.The impact of these economic indicators on probability of default and 
loss given default varies according to different types of industries and 
business types. The Bank applies experts' judgement in this analysis, 
according to the result of experts' judgement, the Bank predicts these 
economic indicators on a quarterly basis and determines the impact of 
these economic indicators on the probability of default and the loss 
given default by conducting regression analysis.于资产负债表日，不考虑任何担保物及其他信用增级措施的最大信
用风险敞口详情如下：As at the balance sheet date, the maximum credit risk exposure of 
the Bank without taking into consideration of collateral and other risk 
mitigation are set out below:存放中央银行款项Deposits with the Central Bank贵金属存放同业款项拆出资金交易性金融资产衍生金融资产买入返售金融资产发放贷款和垫款其他债权投资其他金融资产合计Precious metalsDue from banks and other ﬁnancial institutionsPlacements with banks and other ﬁnancial institutionsFinancial assets held-for-tradingDerivative ﬁnancial assetsReverse repurchase ﬁnancial assetsLoans and advances to customersOther debt instrument at fair value through other 
comprehensive incomeOther ﬁnancial assetsTotal31-12-20216,202,454,0241,285,539,9613,544,261,8548,608,835,0792,197,434,18931-12-20204,689,429,6701,564,487,5853,680,713,1656,667,892,6481,525,241,8444,541,743,72411,567,136,3411,432,434,1762,273,636,71439,160,105,03036,186,036,12710,436,771,93711,029,276,744340,238,878651,812,76877,749,818,85279,835,663,606信贷承诺信用风险敞口（附注九、2） Credit commitments (Note 9.2)14,082,695,79711,470,376,536最大信用风险敞口Maximum credit risk exposure91,832,514,64991,306,040,1421.2 风险集中度(1.2) Risk concentration如交易对手集中于某一行业或地区，或共同具备某些经济特性，
其信用风险通常会相应提高。此外，不同行业和地区的经济发展
均有其独特的特点，因此不同的行业和地区的信用风险亦不相同。本公司主要为境内客户提供贷款及财务担保合同。本公司发放贷
款和垫款的行业集中度详情，请参看附注七、7.2。The  concentration  of  borrowers/counterparties  in  the  same 
industry sector, geographical location or having similar economic 
characteristics would tend to pose higher credit risk to the Bank. 
On the other hand, the level of credit risk may be varied from each 
industry or geographical location in view of their unique economic 
development characteristics.The Bank mainly provides loans and commitments/guarantees to 
domestic customers. Analysis on industry sector concentration for the 
Bank's loans and advances can be found at Note 7. 7.2.156157财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2021 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2021
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)1.3 担保物本公司根据交易对手的信用风险评估决定所需的担保物金额及类
型。本公司对接受担保物建立了相关的指南，包括对担保物评估
频度作了明确的要求。担保物主要有以下几种类型 :• 对于商业贷款，担保物主要为现金及存款、银行担保或房地产；
• 对于个人贷款，担保物为居民住宅。管理层要求业务相关部门监测担保物的市场价值并根据相关协议
要求追加担保，并在进行损失准备的充足性审查时充分考虑担保
物的市价变化。1.4 金融工具信用质量分布截止 2021 年 12 月 31 日，本行金融工具风险阶段划分如下
（不包括应计利息）：(1.3) CollateralThe amount and type of the collateral required would depend on the 
credit risk of the borrowers/counterparties as assessed by the Bank. 
The Bank has established a guideline on taking collateral including the 
frequency of collateral valuation.The main types of collateral include:• For corporate and commercial loans, main collaterals taken includecash deposits, bank guarantee and properties; and• For personal loans, collateral taken are mainly residential properties.The management requires relevant Business Units to monitor the 
market value of the collaterals and follow up with the borrowers/
counterparties to top up collaterals in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of the loan agreement. The change in market value of the 
collateral would also be taken into consideration when reviewing the 
adequacy of loan loss provisions.以摊余成本计量的金融资产Financial assets
measured at amortised cost现金及存放中央银行款项Cash and deposit with the Central Bank存放同业款项Due from banks and other ﬁnancial institutions拆出资金Placements with banks and other ﬁnancial institutions买入返售金融资产Reverse repurchase ﬁnancial assets账面原值Principal Amount预期信用损失Expected Credit Losses第一阶段
Stage I第二阶段
Stage II第三阶段
Stage III合计
Total第一阶段
Stage I第二阶段
Stage II第三阶段
Stage III合计
Total31-12-20216,203,659,6233,557,117,4718,615,825,9371,432,091,000--------6,203,659,623644,9143,557,117,47112,855,9708,615,825,93718,654,1991,432,091,00069,977--------644,91412,855,97018,654,19969,977发放贷款和垫款Loans and advances to customers35,372,619,876460,830,569125,786,95035,959,237,395801,848,30575,054,47388,325,299965,228,077其他金融资产Other ﬁnancial assets340,238,878--340,238,8781,638,030--1,638,030以摊余成本计量的
金融资产合计Total ﬁnancial assets 
measured at amortised cost55,521,552,785460,830,569125,786,95056,108,170,304835,711,39575,054,47388,325,299999,091,167以摊余成本计量的金融资产Financial assets
measured at amortised cost现金及存放中央银行款项Cash and deposit with the Central Bank存放同业款项Due from banks and other ﬁnancial institutions拆出资金Placements with banks and other ﬁnancial institutions买入返售金融资产Reverse repurchase ﬁnancial assets账面原值Principal Amount预期信用损失Expected Credit Losses第一阶段
Stage I第二阶段
Stage II第三阶段
Stage III合计
Total第一阶段
Stage I第二阶段
Stage II第三阶段
Stage III合计
Total31-12-20204,692,423,9223,695,890,5236,667,424,3602,271,360,000--------4,692,423,922486,1163,695,890,52315,668,8276,667,424,3602,271,360,0009,624,176204,966--------486,11615,668,8279,624,176204,966发放贷款和垫款Loans and advances to customers34,131,098,1751,752,849,550131,062,48436,015,010,209633,874,579165,762,74570,747,875870,385,199(1.4) Credit quality distribution of ﬁnancial instruments其他金融资产Other ﬁnancial assets651,812,768--651,812,7683,703,469--3,703,469As of 31 December 2021, the three-staging distribution of financial 
instruments of the Bank is as follows (excluding accrued interest) ：以摊余成本计量的
金融资产合计Total ﬁnancial assets 
measured at amortised cost52,110,009,7481,752,849,550131,062,48453,993,921,782663,562,133165,762,74570,747,875900,072,753158159财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2021 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2021
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)1.5 发放贷款及垫款三阶段风险敞口(1.5) Loans and advances by three-staging classiﬁcation1.6 交易性金融资产(1.6) Financial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss贷款和垫款按五级分类及三阶段列示如下：Loans and advances by five-category loan classification and three-
staging classiﬁcation are analysed as follows:于资产负债表日，交易性债券投资的信用质量（不含应计利息）
根据外部信用评级分析如下：As  at  the  balance  sheet  date,  the  credit  quality  of  trading  bond 
investments  (excluding accrued interest) analysed by external credit 
ratings is as follows:AAAA+合计  Total31-12-20211,196,057,560772,023,1201,968,080,68031-12-2020-149,776,650149,776,650于资产负债表日，交易性大额可转让存单投资的信用质量根据外
部信用评级分析如下：As  at  the  balance  sheet  date,  the  credit  quality  of  the  trading 
negotiable certificate of deposit investment analysed by external 
credit ratings is as follows:31-12-2021198,590,600198,590,60031-12-2020547,659,650547,659,650161第一阶段
Stage I未来 12 个月
预期信用损失
12-month expected
credit loss39,285,472,5345,312,409---第二阶段
Stage II整个存续期
预期信用损失
Lifetime expected
credit loss337,167,690162,771,574---第三阶段
Stage III已发生信用减值金融资产
整个存续期预期信用损失
Lifetime credit loss for 
credit-impaired 
ﬁnancial assets--25,160,60150,000,00050,626,34931-12-2021合计Total39,622,640,224168,083,98325,160,60150,000,00050,626,34939,290,784,943499,939,264125,786,95039,916,511,157AAA合计  Total第一阶段
Stage I未来 12 个月
预期信用损失
12-month expected
credit loss第二阶段
Stage II整个存续期
预期信用损失
Lifetime expected
credit loss第三阶段
Stage III已发生信用减值金融资产
整个存续期预期信用损失
Lifetime credit loss for 
credit-impaired 
ﬁnancial assets34,997,895,9411,537,495,371---215,354,179----38,498,66392,563,82131-12-2020合计Total36,535,391,312215,354,17938,498,66392,563,82134,997,895,9411,752,849,550131,062,48436,881,807,975PassSpecial MentionSubstandardDoubtfulLossTotalPassSpecial MentionSubstandardDoubtfulTotal正常关注次级可疑损失合计正常关注次级可疑合计160财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2021 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2021
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)1.7 其他债权投资(1.7) Other debt investment at fair value through other comprehensive2. 流动性风险(2) Liquidity risk债券及同业存单投资账面价值（不含应计利息）按外部信用评级
及预期信用损失减值阶段列示如下：第一阶段
Stage I未来 12 个月
预期信用损失
12-month expected
credit loss4,220,650,3686,087,558,170AAAA+年末余额Closing balance10,308,208,538第一阶段
Stage I未来 12 个月
预期信用损失
12-month expected
credit loss5,136,114,9215,749,522,540AAAA+年末余额Closing Balance10,885,637,461incomeThe carrying amounts of bond investment and negotiable certiﬁcate of 
deposit investment (excluding accrued interest) analysed by external 
credit ratings and expected credit losses are as follows:第二阶段
Stage II整个存续期
预期信用损失
Lifetime expected
credit loss第三阶段
Stage III整个存续期
已发生信用损失
Lifetime credit loss for 
credit-impaired 
ﬁnancial assets2021合计Total------4,220,650,3686,087,558,17010,308,208,538第二阶段
Stage II整个存续期
预期信用损失
Lifetime expected
credit loss第三阶段
Stage III整个存续期
已发生信用损失
Lifetime credit loss for 
credit-impaired 
ﬁnancial assets2020合计Total------5,136,114,9215,749,522,54010,885,637,461本公司保持充足的流动性以保障银行日常运营的开展，满足存款的
提款和贷款的发放，投资新项目以及支付到期的借款。因此，流动
性管理的主旨在于应付银行确定的及不可确定的资金需求。本公司流动性风险管理是在完整的风险管理框架下进行的，包含经
由资产负债委员会批准的各项政策、控制流程、风险限额。这些政策、
控制流程及风险限额确保本公司在不同的市场环境下有充足的资金
以应对流动性需求。这些措施包括通过多样化资金的来源及其期限
将资金集中度降至最小，以及持有高流动性债券。本公司在流动性风险管理方面采取保守立场，持续的吸收核心存款，
严格遵守流动性风险额度，保留充足的流动资产等措施来防范可能
出现的资金短缺。本公司通过主动分散存款的来源，以保持成本效率的均衡，资金的
持续可获得以及资金来源的多样化。通过竞争性定价管理银行的核
心存款以及维护客户的信心。本公司通过预测银行现金流来度量和管理流动性风险，现金流的预
测是基于“正常业务情景”和“压力情景”来进行。本公司设置现金流
错配限额来控制银行流动性风险敞口的同时，还采用流动性早期预
警指标和警戒线以揭示可能出现的危机状况。本公司在建立的流动
性应急计划中运用一系列的预警指标揭示可能发生的流动性危机。
在该应急计划中，本公司通过设立危机上报流程及包括融资、沟通
等危机处理策略来减少流动性危机所带来的负面影响。The Bank maintains sufficient liquidity to fund day-to-day operations, 
to meet deposit withdrawals and loan disbursements, to participate in 
new investments, and to repay borrowings. Hence, liquidity is managed 
in a manner to address both anticipated and unanticipated cash funding 
needs.Liquidity risk is managed in accordance with a complete framework of 
risk management, including-policies, controls and limits approved by the 
Asset and Liability Committee (ALCO). These policies, controls and limits 
are established to ensure that the Bank has sufﬁcient funding to manage 
liquidity risk over a range of market conditions. These include minimising 
excessive funding concentrations by diversifying the sources and terms 
of funding as well as maintaining a portfolio of debt securities with high 
quality and good liquidity.The  Bank  takes  a  conservative  stance  in  liquidity  management  by 
continuing to gather core deposits, strictly complying with liquidity 
limits and retaining adequate liquid assets to prevent any possible cash 
shortfall.The Bank actively dispersed the sources of deposits to maintain a balance 
of cost efﬁciency, continued availability of funds and diversiﬁcation of 
funding sources. Important factors in ensuring liquidity are competitive 
pricing, proactive management of the Bank's core deposits and the 
maintenance of customer conﬁdence.Liquidity risk is measured and managed on projected cash ﬂow basis. Cash 
flow projection is monitored under both business-as-usual and stress 
scenarios. Cash ﬂow mismatch limits are established to limit the Bank's 
liquidity exposure. The Bank has also employed liquidity early warning 
indicators and trigger points to signal possible contingency situations. 
Contingency  funding  plans  have  been  set  up  to  identify  potential 
liquidity crises by using a series of warning indicators. Crisis management 
processes and various strategies including funding and communication 
have been developed to minimise the negative impact of any liquidity 
crunch.162163财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2021 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2021
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)于 2021 年 12 月 31 日，本公司的金融资产及金融负债未经折现的到期
日分析如下：The Bank's undiscounted maturity proﬁle of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities 
as at 31 December 2021 is as follows:金融资产：Financial assets:现金及存放中央银行款项Cash and deposits with the Central Bank贵金属存放同业款项拆出资金Precious metalsDue from banks and other ﬁnancial institutionsPlacements with banks and other ﬁnancial institutions交易性金融资产Financial assets held-for-trading衍生金融资产Derivative ﬁnancial assets买入返售金融资产Reverse repurchase ﬁnancial assets逾期 / 即时偿还
Overdue / On demand1 个月内
Within 1 month1 至 3 个月
1 to 3 months3 个月至 1 年
3 months to 1 year1 至 5 年
1 to 5 years5 年以上
5 years above无期限
undated31-12-2021合计
Total2,703,673,625-3,544,261,854-------6,841,718,6112,597,8631,282,580,3471,432,826,570------656,111,5081,125,434,708--------7,973,000822,215,0401,156,991,988345,137,292747,935,6201,103,846,8261,407,357,614---23,317-3,500,820,3816,204,494,0061,285,539,9611,285,539,961-----3,544,261,8548,623,264,8272,334,915,1834,541,743,7241,432,826,570发放贷款和垫款Loans and advances to customers48,653,6904,045,190,7007,502,948,93813,996,943,73512,360,235,8054,759,523,090685,521,12243,399,017,080Other debt instrument at fair value through other comprehensive income-572,679,0281,783,125,3473,333,920,9384,630,931,250145,533,3004,976,044311,053,95724,208,877---6,301,565,21314,488,647,07610,722,303,29020,382,361,24719,555,516,6575,250,216,9995,471,881,46482,172,491,946同业及其他金融机构存放款项Due to banks and other ﬁnancial institutions1,803,043,004--143,258,548交易性金融负债Financial liabilities held-for-trading180,148,500185,0305,602,141,2631,120,394,158其他债权投资其他金融资产金融资产合计金融负债：Other ﬁnancial assetsTotal ﬁnancial assetsFinancial liabilities:拆入资金衍生金融负债吸收存款Placements from banks and other ﬁnancial institutionsDerivative ﬁnancial liabilitiesCustomer deposits卖出回购金融资产款Repurchase agreementsDebt securities issuedOther ﬁnancial liabilitiesTotal ﬁnancial liabilitiesNet liquidityCommitments应付债券其他金融负债金融负债合计流动性净额表外承诺事项164--3,061,874,9111,062,102,4635,016,804,4484,108,987,656836,977,488985,014,8351,418,063,2061,288,596----18,185,889,41614,352,917,1074,000,805,6513,777,487,9061,495,102,616---1,190,848,225309,680,2551,228,184-218,916,542628,378,076---236,042,2561,094,006,074-------20,169,080,92019,978,836,17516,304,023,46810,371,185,3594,007,171,8961,288,596(13,867,515,707)(5,490,189,099)(5,581,720,178)10,011,175,88815,548,344,7615,248,928,4035,471,881,46411,340,905,532571,585,5131,053,362,9672,924,320,7087,476,937,8312,056,488,778--14,082,695,797165--10,466,189,863340,238,878---------1,946,301,55212,187,667,0154,303,446,58841,812,202,6966,902,868,9511,190,848,2251,858,645,127629,606,26070,831,586,414财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2021 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2021
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)于 2020 年 12 月 31 日，本公司的金融资产及金融负债未经折现的到
期日分析如下：The Bank's undiscounted maturity proﬁle of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities 
as at 31 December 2020 is as follows:逾期 / 即时偿还
Overdue / On demand1 个月内
Within 1 month1 至 3 个月
1 to 3 months3 个月至 1 年
3 months to 1 year1 至 5 年
1 to 5 years5 年以上
5 years above无期限
undated31-12-2020合计
TotalDue from banks and other ﬁnancial institutions3,431,281,578249,801,368Placements with banks and other ﬁnancial institutions518,540,819-------2,771,892,86027,499,0132,512,668,6572,274,796,605------3,202,094,178713,468,405----1,341,452,6183,955,850153,736,650-----2,655,523,9635,339,319,5821,019,455,34740,168,792----4,175,052,4954,693,593,3141,564,487,5851,564,487,585-----3,681,082,9466,687,455,4431,526,644,13111,567,136,3412,274,796,605发放贷款和垫款Loans and advances to customers69,563,8452,279,563,4046,455,861,09511,872,364,40113,697,928,8455,904,135,930691,168,18440,970,585,704Other debt instrument at fair value through other comprehensive income-877,134,6582,017,982,5032,599,037,4895,950,201,613490,659626,837,427-24,484,682-4,019,876,90111,620,193,99215,672,914,35720,552,630,40920,821,322,4555,944,304,7226,430,708,26485,061,951,100同业及其他金融机构存放款项Due to banks and other ﬁnancial institutions1,483,415,305--141,289,588--金融资产：Financial assets:现金及存放中央银行款项Cash and deposits with the Central BankPrecious metals交易性金融资产Financial assets held-for-trading衍生金融资产Derivative ﬁnancial assets买入返售金融资产Reverse repurchase ﬁnancial assets贵金属存放同业款项拆出资金其他债权投资其他金融资产金融资产合计金融负债：Other ﬁnancial assetsTotal ﬁnancial assetsFinancial liabilities:拆入资金衍生金融负债吸收存款Placements from banks and other ﬁnancial institutionsDerivative ﬁnancial liabilitiesCustomer deposits交易性金融负债Financial liabilities held-for-trading卖出回购金融资产款Repurchase agreementsDebt securities issuedOther ﬁnancial liabilitiesTotal ﬁnancial liabilitiesNet liquidityCommitments应付债券其他金融负债金融负债合计流动性净额表外承诺事项166----11,444,356,263651,812,768------------------1,624,704,89316,770,540,80811,611,363,62536,606,690,3343,646,610,729466,204,4942,238,409,464583,203,49973,547,727,846--2,806,851,7002,368,653,9473,780,610,9237,968,531,2982,214,546,8872,742,812,9225,455,785,1471,044,111,60914,261,327,5309,691,577,5304,631,171,5107,313,839,857----135,099,950466,204,494-6,015,3983,113,998,496---708,773,907397,512,283----1,097,204,7881,141,204,676577,188,101-15,744,742,83515,474,403,01914,268,593,85122,951,351,0625,108,637,079(11,724,865,934)(3,854,209,027)1,404,320,506(2,398,720,653)15,712,685,3765,944,304,7226,430,708,26411,514,223,254201,514,622654,259,6561,978,162,8705,566,541,9373,069,897,451--11,470,376,536167财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2021 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2021
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)3. 市场风险(3) Market risk3.1 汇率风险(3.1) Currency risk本公司面临的市场风险主要来自利率、汇率产品和贵金属产品的敞口
头寸。本公司的交易性业务及非交易性业务均可产生市场风险。本公
司市场风险管理的目标是避免收入和权益由于市场风险产生的过度损
失，同时降低本公司受金融工具内在波动性风险的影响。本公司由风险管理部总览全行的市场风险敞口，并负责拟制相关市场
风险管理政策报送资产负债委员会批准，并定期将银行市场风险敞口
汇报给资产负债委员会和董事会风险管理委员会。本公司按照既定标准和当前管理能力监管市场风险，其主要的监管方
法包括敏感性分析、预期损失、风险价值、压力测试等。在新产品或
新业务上线前，该产品和业务中的市场风险将按照规定予以辨识。本公司根据不同账户的各自特点将表内外资产负债划分为交易账户或
银行账户。交易账户主要包括因交易目的或者是为规避交易账户其他
项目风险而持有的可自由交易的金融工具和商品头寸。交易账户中的
市场风险取决于交易的工具，包括利率、汇率、股票价格、商品价格、
信贷利差等。银行账户包括除交易账户外的其他金融工具。银行账户
中的主要风险是利率和信贷利差风险。The Bank is exposed to market risk mainly from open positions in interest 
rate, foreign exchange rate products and precious metal products. Market 
risk arises from both trading and non-trading business. The objective 
of market risk management is to avoid excessive losses in earnings and 
shareholder's fund due to market risk, and to minimise the negative impact 
from inherent volatility risks of ﬁnancial instruments.The Risk Management monitors the Bank's market risk exposure and is 
responsible for setting up market risk policies with approval by the Asset 
& Liability Committee. Market Risk exposures are reported to the Asset & 
Liability Committee and Board Risk Management Committee on a regular 
basis.The  Bank  monitors  and  manages  market  risk  in  accordance  with 
established  framework and policies. The monitoring and measurement 
methods mainly include sensitivity analysis, Expected Shortfall (ES), Value-
at-Risk (VaR) and stress testing. Prior to launch of new product or new 
business, market risk will be properly identiﬁed and addressed.The Bank divides the balance sheet assets and liabilities into the trading 
book  or  banking  book  according  to  the  characteristics  of  different 
accounts.  Trading  book  mainly  includes  freely  tradable  financial 
instruments and commodity positions held for trading purpose or to 
avoid risks in other items of the trading account. The market risk in trading 
book depends on the tools of the transactions, including interest rates, 
foreign exchange rates, stock prices, commodity prices and credit spreads. 
Banking book includes ﬁnancial instruments other than trading book. The 
main risks in banking book are  interest rate and credit spread risks.主要是由于本公司资产和负债的货币错配以及外汇交易无法及时
规避风险敞口以至于暴露于市场波动而引起的风险。于 2021 年 12 月 31 日，本公司的有关资产及负债按币种列示如下：The Bank's currency risk arises mainly from currency mismatches of 
assets and liabilities as well as foreign exchange trading business 
whereby the open positions are subject to exchange rate ﬂuctuations.As at 31 December 2021, the Bank's assets and liabilities by currency 
are as follows:美元
 USD
(RMB equivalent)人民币
RMB其他
 Others 
(RMB equivalent)合计      
 Total 
(RMB equivalent)31-12-2021资产：Assets:现金及存放中央银行款项Cash and deposit with the Central Bank610,372,2465,586,591,6837,530,0776,204,494,006Precious metals-1,285,539,961-1,285,539,961Due from banks and other ﬁnancial institutions1,803,879,4231,319,538,770420,843,6613,544,261,854贵金属存放同业款项拆出资金Placements with banks and other ﬁnancial institutions6,872,570,3621,736,264,717交易性金融资产Financial assets held-for-trading-2,197,434,189--8,608,835,0792,197,434,189衍生金融资产Derivative ﬁnancial assets535,721,3514,004,837,8131,184,5604,541,743,724买入返售金融资产Reverse repurchase ﬁnancial assets-1,432,434,176-1,432,434,176发放贷款和垫款Loans and advances to customers6,656,367,48031,869,272,047634,465,50339,160,105,030其他债权投资其他金融资产金融资产合计负债：Other debt instrument at fair value through other 
comprehensive incomeOther ﬁnancial assetsTotal ﬁnancial assetsLiabilities:127,480,34710,309,291,590-10,436,771,93719,902,684312,602,5807,733,614340,238,87816,626,293,89360,053,807,5261,071,757,41577,751,858,834同业及其他金融机构存放款项 Due to banks and other ﬁnancial institutions3,157,2551,943,114,445-1,946,271,700拆入资金Placements from banks and other ﬁnancial institutions7,044,834,3314,953,935,45016,195,44312,014,965,224交易性金融负债Financial liabilities held-for-trading6,047,1936,893,701,482-6,899,748,675衍生金融负债Derivative ﬁnancial liabilities489,669,6093,812,772,0211,004,9584,303,446,588吸收存款应付债券Customer depositsDebt securities issued卖出回购金融资产款Repurchase agreements其他金融负债金融负债合计Other ﬁnancial liabilitiesTotal ﬁnancial liabilities6,302,923,95435,016,542,225393,281,83041,712,748,009--1,720,431,4291,190,494,609--1,720,431,4291,190,494,60945,616,900560,455,45923,533,901629,606,26013,892,249,24256,091,447,120434,016,13270,417,712,494资产负债净头寸Net position2,734,044,6513,962,360,406637,741,2837,334,146,340衍生金融工具名义金额Notional amounts of derivative ﬁnancial instruments161,423,495,609  346,250,271,3914,913,810,592  512,587,577,592信贷承诺Commitments3,615,315,7478,827,032,3821,640,347,66814,082,695,797168169财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2021 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2021
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)于 2020 年 12 月 31 日，本公司的有关资产及负债按币种列示如下：As at 31 December 2020, the Bank's assets and liabilities by currency 
are as follows:以下是在其他变量不变的情况下，外币对本位币汇率可能发生的
合理变动对税前利润的影响：Holding all other variables constant, the impact from a change in 
foreign exchange rates on proﬁt before tax of the Bank is as follows:变量变动对本位币贬值 1%对本位币升值 1%Change in Foreign Exchange Rate-1% change against RMB+1% change against RMB31-12-2021对税前利润影响
 Impact on proﬁt(33,717,859)33,717,85931-12-2020对税前利润影响
 Impact on proﬁt34,571,841(34,571,841)以上敏感性分析基于资产和负债具有静态的汇率风险结构，其计
算了当其他因素不变时，外币对人民币汇率的合理可能变动对税
前利润的影响。The sensitivity analysis above is performed on the basis that assets and 
liabilities have static currency risk structure. It shows the impact of a 
change in other currency rates against RMB on the Bank's proﬁt before 
tax, given other variables remain constant.有关的分析基于以下假设：(1)  汇率敏感度是指各币种对人民币于报告日当天收盘（中间价 )汇率绝对值波动 1% 造成的汇兑损益；The analysis is based on below assumptions:(1)  Exchange rate sensitivity refers to the gains and losses caused by 
one per cent change of the closing rate (mid rate) of the different 
foreign currencies against RMB as at the balance sheet date;美元
 USD
(RMB equivalent)人民币
RMB其他
 Others 
(RMB equivalent)合计      
 Total 
(RMB equivalent)31-12-2020资产：Assets:现金及存放中央银行款项 Cash and deposit with the Central Bank871,083,4883,818,609,8573,899,9694,693,593,314贵金属Precious metals-1,564,487,585-1,564,487,585存放同业款项Due from banks and other ﬁnancial institutions1,764,434,995807,997,9761,108,280,1943,680,713,165拆出资金Placements with banks and other ﬁnancial institutions4,642,236,9561,958,942,52166,713,1716,667,892,648交易性金融资产Financial assets held-for-trading-1,525,241,844-1,525,241,844衍生金融资产Derivative ﬁnancial assets313,750,50311,249,416,0783,969,76011,567,136,341买入返售金融资产Reverse repurchase ﬁnancial assets-2,273,636,714-2,273,636,714发放贷款和垫款Loans and advances to customers5,771,554,31729,591,211,553823,270,25736,186,036,127其他债权投资Other debt instrument at fair value through other 
comprehensive income-11,029,276,744-11,029,276,744(2)  各币种汇率变动是指各币种对人民币汇率同时同向波动；其他金融资产Other ﬁnancial assets14,732,777633,130,7423,949,249651,812,768金融资产合计Total ﬁnancial assets13,377,793,03664,451,951,6142,010,082,60079,839,827,250负债：Liabilities:(3)  该汇率风险敞口不包含资产负债表表外科目。(2)  Exchange rate ﬂuctuation refers to the ﬂuctuation against RMB in由于基于上述假设，汇率变化导致本公司汇兑净损益出现的实际变
化可能与此敏感性分析的结果不同。the same direction simultaneously;(3)  Off-balance sheet items are excluded.同业及其他金融机构存放
款项Due to banks and other ﬁnancial institutions3,225,2501,621,371,375-1,624,596,625拆入资金Placements from banks and other ﬁnancial institutions12,994,553,3843,555,193,09642,383,45216,592,129,932交易性金融负债Financial liabilities held-for-trading6,943,9353,637,288,183-3,644,232,118衍生金融负债Derivative ﬁnancial liabilities442,632,80911,165,278,5053,452,31111,611,363,625吸收存款应付债券Customer depositsDebt securities issued卖出回购金融资产款Repurchase agreements4,959,624,49231,153,868,998349,655,20536,463,148,695--2,037,710,703466,069,704--2,037,710,703466,069,704其他金融负债Other ﬁnancial liabilities13,335,712540,614,64029,253,147583,203,499金融负债合计Total ﬁnancial liabilities18,420,315,58254,177,395,204424,744,11573,022,454,901资产负债净头寸Net position(5,042,522,546)10,274,556,4101,585,338,4856,817,372,349衍生金融工具名义金额Notional amounts of derivative ﬁnancial instruments222,913,086,062442,074,097,1114,978,704,029669,965,887,202信贷承诺Commitments2,787,131,2575,621,955,2793,061,290,00011,470,376,536Due to the above assumptions, the actual impact of exchange rate 
fluctuation on the Bank's earnings may differ from above sensitivity 
analysis.170171财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2021 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2021
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)3.2 利率风险交易账户(3.2) Interest rate riskTrading book交易账户主要包括因交易目的或者是为规避交易账户其他项目风
险而持有的可自由交易的金融工具和商品头寸。交易账户中的市
场风险取决于交易的工具，包括利率、汇率、股票价格、商品价格、
信贷利差等。本公司目前使用标准法计量监管要求下的市场风险资本，使用内
部模型法计量和监控交易账户市场风险。本公司在内部市场风险管理中采用 97.5% 置信区间下测算日预期
损失 (Expected Shortfall) 的历史模拟法。该方法认为诸如利率、汇
率和商品价格等风险因子在未来的变动特征可以通过观察其历史
数据得到。预期损失（ES）是尾部损失分布的均值，认为通常计
量结果大于某一置信区间点计量的潜在损失。在回溯测试中，本公司采用历史模拟法 99% 置信区间下的日风险
价值（VaR）。风险价值（VaR）与预期损失（ES）的损失分布一
致。通过回溯测试比较交易账户的损益与风险价值（VaR）的差
异来验证是否有因为模型缺陷或市场波动导致其中不符合预期的
结果。所有回溯测试反映的问题及解决方案都将汇报至资产负债
委员会。虽然 VaR 和 ES 是衡量市场风险的重要工具，但有关模型的假设存
在一定限制条件，例如：•  在绝大多情况下，可在 1 个交易日的观察期内进行仓盘套期或
出售的假设合理，但在市场长时期严重流动性不足的情况下，1
个交易日的观察期假设可能不符合实际情况；•  VaR 和 ES 按当日收市基准计算，并不反映交易当天持仓可能面对的风险；•  历史数据用作确定将来结果的可能范围的基准，不一定适用于所有可能情况，特别是例外事项。为弥补预期损失（ES）测量法的不足，本公司借助压力测试及情
景测试，找出银行在面对某些极端情景时可能出现的损失。这些
测试为主动市场风险管理提供了早期预警信息，以应对可能的极
端损失。本公司 2021 年 12 月 31 日的日预期损失（ES）为人民币 1,303 万元
（2020 年 12 月 31 日预期损失（ES）为：人民币 1,778 万元）。Trading book mainly includes freely tradable financial instruments and 
commodity positions held for trading purpose or to avoid risks of other 
items in the trading account. The market risk in trading book depends on 
the tools of the transaction, including interest rates, exchange rates, stock 
prices, commodity prices, and credit spreads, etc.The  Bank  currently  adopts  the  Standardised  Approach  for  the 
calculation of regulatory market risk capital and uses the Internal 
Models Approach to measure and to control trading market risks.The Bank estimates a daily Expected Shortfall (ES) within a 97.5 
per cent confidence interval over a one-day holding period, using 
the historical simulation method, as a control for market risk. This 
method assumes observed historical market movements can be used 
to imply possible future changes in market rates. ES is the average of 
the worst losses in the distribution, assuming that the losses exceed 
the speciﬁed percentile.For back testing purpose, the Bank uses daily VaR within a 99 per cent 
conﬁdence interval over a one-day holding period. VaR uses the same 
loss distribution as ES. The backtesting process analyses whether 
the exceptions are due to model deficiencies or market volatility. 
All backtesting exceptions are tabled to ALCO with recommended 
actions and resolutions.Although VaR and ES are important tools to measure market risk, there 
are certain limitations on the assumptions of the model, such as:•In most cases, the assumption that a position can be hedged or 
sold within the observation period of one trading day is reasonable, 
but in the case of severe liquidity shortage in the market over a 
long period of time, the assumption of the observation period of 
one trading day may not be in line with the actual situation;•  VaR and ES are calculated based on the day's closing benchmark 
and do not reﬂect the risks that may be faced by positions held on 
the trade day;•  Historical data is used as a basis for determining the possible 
range of future results, and may not be applicable to all possible 
situations, especially exceptions.To complement the ES measure, the Bank perform stress and scenario 
tests to identify the Bank's vulnerability to event risk. These tests 
serve to provide early warnings of plausible extreme losses.The Bank's daily ES on 31 December 2021 was RMB13.03 million (The 
Bank's daily ES on 31 December 2020 was RMB17.78 million).银行账户Banking book资产负债委员会负责总揽利率风险管理框架的有效性。资产负债
风险管理部协助资产负债委员会负责监测银行账户下的利率风险。利率风险管理的主要目标就是在多样化的经济环境中，通过管理
银行的净利息收入来保护并促进银行资本和经济价值的增长。本公司使用分析工具，包括重定价期限和敏感性分析定量测算银
行账户利率风险敞口。通过对利率敏感资产负债相对于利率变动
的分析，揭示利率变动对利息收入及经济价值潜在影响。利率敏
感度受重新定价期限、币种及隐含的期权的影响。相比于短期错
配，长期的利率错配对利率头寸价值的影响更大。本公司亦采用如净利息收入和净资产经济价值定量分析方法定期
进行利率风险压力测试 ,  以管理银行的资本金应对因为利率的大
幅波动对银行资产负债表的影响。同时，该压力测试也用于对极
端情况下可能发生高额损失的早期预警并促进银行在快速波动的
市场环境下积极地管理利率风险。The ALCO maintains oversight of the effectiveness of the interest 
rate risk management structure. The Balance Sheet Risk Management 
(BSRM) Division supports the ALCO in monitoring the interest rate 
risk proﬁle of the banking book.The primary objective of interest rate risk management is to protect 
and to enhance capital or economic net worth through adequate, 
stable and reliable growth in net interest earnings under a broad range 
of possible economic conditions.Banking book interest rate risk exposure is quantiﬁed using analysis 
tools  include  repricing  schedules  and  sensitivity  analysis.  They 
provide indications of the potential impact of interest rate changes 
on interest income and economic value through the analysis of the 
sensitivity of assets and liabilities to changes in interest rates. Interest 
rate sensitivity varies with different repricing periods, currencies and 
embedded options mismatches in the longer tenor will experience 
greater impact in the price-value of interest rate positions than 
similar positions in the shorter tenor.The Bank also performs quantitative analysis method of net interest 
income and economic value of net assets regularly to determine the 
adequacy of capital in meeting the impact of extreme interest rate 
movements on the balance sheet. Such tests are also performed to 
provide early warnings of potential extreme losses, facilitating the 
proactive management of interest rate risks in an environment of 
rapid ﬁnancial market changes.172173财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2021 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2021
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)由于利率，汇率和股权价格变化带来交易账户下的风险通过市场
风险管理框架来进行管理和监控。于 2021 年 12 月 31 日，本公司银行账户包含的所有的资产及负债
按合同重定价日或到期日两者较早者分析如下：The risks arising from the trading book, such as interest rates, foreign 
exchange rates and equity prices are managed and controlled under 
the market risk framework.As at 31 December 2021, the Bank's assets/liabilities of banking book 
re-pricing proﬁles (based on the earlier of maturity date and re-pricing 
date) is as follows:于 2020 年 12 月 31 日，本公司银行账户包含的所有的资产及负债
按合同重定价日或到期日两者较早者分析如下：As at 31 December 2020, the Bank's assets/liabilities of banking book 
re-pricing proﬁles (based on the earlier of maturity date and re-pricing 
date) is as follows:3 个月内
Within 3 months3 个月至 1 年
3 months to1 year1 至 5 年
1 to 5 years5 年以上
5 years above不计息
Non-interest bearing31-12-2021合计
Total3 个月内
Within 3 months3 个月至 1 年
3 months to1 year1 至 5 年
1 to 5 years5 年以上
5 years above不计息
Non-interest bearing31-12-2020合计
Total资产：Assets:现金及存放中央银
行款项Cash and deposit with the 
Central Bank存放同业款项拆出资金Due from banks and other 
ﬁnancial institutionsPlacements with banks and 
other ﬁnancial institutions5,584,607,8922,334,015,442--7,481,829,1721,115,367,785买入返售金融资产Reverse repurchase ﬁnancial 
assets1,432,021,043---------619,886,1146,204,494,006资产：Assets:现金及存放中央银
行款项Cash and deposit with the 
Central Bank3502,334,015,792存放同业款项11,638,1228,608,835,079拆出资金Due from banks and other 
ﬁnancial institutionsPlacements with banks and 
other ﬁnancial institutions3,816,427,1303,136,221,418--5,951,361,714706,453,015413,1331,432,434,176买入返售金融资产Reverse repurchase ﬁnancial 
assets2,271,155,258---------877,166,1844,693,593,314489,2063,136,710,62410,077,9196,667,892,6482,481,4562,273,636,71418,762,810,42318,017,226,289500,946,551176,351,387303,174,90737,760,509,557发放贷款及垫款Loans and advances to 
customers15,631,528,02619,122,766,263100,352,774200,002,099261,449,87735,316,099,039发放贷款及垫款Loans and advances to 
customers其他债权投资Other debt instrument at 
fair value through other 
comprehensive income其他金融资产Other ﬁnancial assets----34,935,92034,935,920其他金融资产Other ﬁnancial assets---2,335,937,3273,283,926,7004,542,811,212145,533,300128,563,39810,436,771,937其他债权投资Other debt instrument at 
fair value through other 
comprehensive income2,823,774,2502,429,707,1305,632,156,081--143,639,28311,029,276,74437,656,38337,656,383金融资产合计Total ﬁnancial assets37,931,221,29922,416,520,7745,043,757,763321,884,6871,098,611,94466,811,996,467金融资产合计Total ﬁnancial assets33,630,467,79622,258,926,4085,732,508,855200,002,0991,332,960,30863,154,865,466负债：Liabilities:同业及其他金融机
构存放款项Due to banks and other 
ﬁnancial institutions1,803,042,943141,141,427--拆入资金吸收存款Placement from banks and 
other ﬁnancial institutions7,825,146,9644,097,012,334Customer deposits35,764,660,5453,655,733,0251,407,731,806卖出回购金融资产款 Repurchase agreements1,190,000,000--应付债券Debt securities issued528,596,798188,042,256998,137,580其他金融负债Other ﬁnancial liabilities---金融负债合计Total ﬁnancial liabilities47,111,447,2508,081,929,0422,405,869,386衍生金融资产（注）衍生金融负债（注）Derivative ﬁnancial 
assets (Note)Derivative ﬁnancial 
liabilities (Note)12,435,181,5601,917,488,750127,514,00012,456,388,4961,880,831,500130,398,0002,087,3301,946,271,70092,805,92612,014,965,224884,622,63341,712,748,009负债：Liabilities:同业及其他金融机
构存放款项Due to banks and other 
ﬁnancial institutions1,483,415,305139,172,999-拆入资金吸收存款Placement from banks and 
other ﬁnancial institutions6,573,472,2387,946,023,2201,995,800,000Customer deposits28,251,006,1907,140,019,598627,778,016494,6091,190,494,609卖出回购金融资产款 Repurchase agreements466,000,000--5,654,7951,720,431,429应付债券Debt securities issued109,023,750109,023,750其他金融负债Other ﬁnancial liabilities--999,444,170997,628,999--1,094,689,04358,693,934,721金融负债合计Total ﬁnancial liabilities36,773,893,73316,224,659,9873,621,207,015--14,480,184,310衍生金融资产（注）14,467,617,996衍生金融负债（注）Derivative ﬁnancial 
assets (Note)Derivative ﬁnancial 
liabilities (Note)978,650,82984,823,700980,537,94084,813,830--------------------2,008,3211,624,596,62576,834,47416,592,129,932444,344,89136,463,148,69569,704466,069,70440,637,5342,037,710,703138,171,601138,171,601702,066,52557,321,827,260--1,063,474,5291,065,351,770利率风险缺口Net position(9,201,432,887)14,371,248,9822,635,004,377321,884,6873,922,9018,130,628,060利率风险缺口Net position(3,145,313,048)6,034,276,2912,111,301,840200,002,099630,893,7835,831,160,965注：  本公司银行账户包含的衍生金融资产 / 负债按名义本金的合同重定价日或到期日两者较早者进行分析。
Note: The derivative ﬁnancial assets/liabilities of banking book are analysed based on the earlier of re-pricing date and maturity date of the nominal principal.174175财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2021 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2021
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)本公司对浮动利率工具按照重定价日，对固定利率工具按照到期
日管理计息金融资产及计息金融负债的重定价情况。以下是在其他变量不变的情况下，利率可能发生的合理变动对净
损益、其他综合收益的税后净额及所有者权益方面的影响。The Bank profiles its interest bearing assets and liabilities based on 
maturity date for fixed rate items or re-pricing date for floating rate 
items.Holding other variables constant, the impact of interest rate movement 
on the Bank's net profit, other comprehensive income after tax and 
equity is as follows:31-21-202131-12-2020对净损益的影响
Impact on net proﬁt对净损益的影响
Impact on net proﬁt所采用之方法及假设如下：变量变动Change in interest rate利率增加 100 个基点利率减少 100 个基点+ 100 basis points-  100 basis points(19,965,266)19,965,266(3,669,715)3,669,715以上敏感性分析基于资产和负债具有静态的利率风险结构。有关
的分析仅衡量一年内利率变化，反映为一年内本公司资产和负债
的重新定价对本公司按年化计算利息收入的影响，基于以下假设：(1)  所有在三个月内及三个月后但一年内重新定价或到期的资产和负债均假设在有关期间中间重新定价或到期；(2)  收益率曲线随利率变化而平行移动；The sensitivity analysis above is performed on the basis that assets and 
liabilities have static interest rate risk structure. It reﬂects the impact of 
interest rate movement on the Bank's net interest income over a one-
year period. The key assumptions are as follows:(1)  All assets and liabilities with re-pricing date less than three months 
or between three months and one year are assumed to be re-
priced in the middle of the respective time bucket;(3)  资产和负债组合并无其他变化；(2)  Yield curve shifts in parallel with interest rate change;(4)  此利率风险敞口不包含除衍生金融工具以外的资产负债表表(3)  Assets and liabilities are not subject to other changes; and外科目。(4)  Off-balance sheet items except derivative ﬁnancial instruments are由于基于上述假设，利率增减导致本公司利息净收入出现的实际
变化可能与此敏感性分析的结果不同。excluded.Due to the above assumptions, the actual impact of net interest 
income from interest rate movement may differ from above sensitivity 
analysis.(i)  以公允价值计量且其变动计入当期损益的金融资产 / 金融负债
（包括衍生金融资产 / 金融负债）乃参考可供参照之市价计算
其公允价值。倘无可供参照之市价，则将现金流量折现估算公
允价值或参照交易对方的报价确定公允价值。公允价值等于此
等项目之账面金额；(ii)  于 12 个月内到期之其他金融资产金融负债由于期限较短，它们的账面价值与公允价值相若；(iii)  凡定息贷款按当时适用于类似贷款之市场利率贷出，其公允价
值以参照市场利率方法估算。贷款组合中信贷质量之变化在确
定总公允价值时不予考虑，因为信贷风险之影响将单独作为贷
款损失，从账面值及公允价值中扣除；(iv)  客户存款乃按不同品种使用固定或浮动利率。活期存款及无指
定届满期之储蓄账户假设结算日按通知应付金额为公允价值。
有固定期限之存款的公允价值以现金流量折现法估算，折现率
为与该定期存款的剩余期限对应的现行存款利率。本公司确定公允价值的方法可以归结为以下两种：(i)  市值计价：计价是运用独立并未经调整的市场报价；(ii)  估值计价：计价是运用估值技术进行估值。1764. 公允价值(4) Fair value of ﬁnancial instruments公允价值，是指市场参与者在计量日发生的有序交易中，出售一项
资产所能收到或者转移一项负债所需支付的价格。在交易活跃之市
场（例如认可证券交易所）存在的条件下，市价乃金融工具公允价
值之最佳证明。然而，本公司所持有及发行之部分金融资产及负债
并无市价。因此，对于该部分无市价可依之金融工具，以如下所述
之现值或其他估计方法估算公允价值。但是，运用此等方法所计之
价值会受有关未来现金流量数额，时间性假设，以及所采用之折现
率影响。Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to 
transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants 
at the measurement date. Subject to the existence of an active market, 
such as an authorised securities exchange, the market value is the best 
reﬂection of the fair value of ﬁnancial instruments. As there is no available 
market value for some of the ﬁnancial assets and liabilities held and issued 
by the Bank, the discounted cash ﬂow method or other valuation methods 
described below are adopted to determine the fair value of these assets 
and liabilities. However, the value determined by such methods would 
depend on the amount of future cash ﬂows, time period assumption and 
discount rates used.The following methods and assumptions are used in estimating fair values:(i)Financial  assets  at  fair  value  through  profit  or  loss  (including 
derivative assets/liabilities) are stated at fair value by reference to 
the quoted market prices when available.  If quoted market prices are 
not available, the fair value is estimated using discounted cash ﬂows 
or quoted price from the counter parties. The carrying amounts of 
these items reﬂect the fair value as at the balance sheet date;(ii)  The fair values of other ﬁnancial assets and liabilities maturing within 
12 months are assumed to be equal to their carrying amounts in view 
of their short maturity;(iii)  The fair value of ﬁxed rate loans priced at market rate at the time the 
loans are extended shall be determined using prevailing market rates 
of similar loans. Changes in the credit quality of loans within the 
portfolio are not taken into account in determining the fair values 
as the impact of credit risk is recognised separately as impairment 
provision which shall be deducted from the carrying amounts and 
fair value;(iv)  Customer deposits are priced based on fixed rate or floating rate 
depending on the product type. The fair value of demand deposits 
and saving deposits without specific maturity date is determined 
based on the amount payable on demand. The fair value of fixed 
deposits is estimated using discounted cash ﬂows method with the 
prevailing deposit rate for the remaining tenor of the ﬁxed deposit as 
the discount rate.The method of determining a fair value in the Bank can be categorised 
into two main approaches:(i)  Mark to Market - where the valuation uses independent unadjustedquoted market prices;(ii)  Mark to Model - where valuation techniques are used to determinethe valuation.177财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2021 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2021
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)估值调整作为实现公允价值的一个必要组成，要求根据客观情况，
对交易价格进行调整以确保公允价值的准确性。本公司遵循的估值
调整方法考虑到不同的因素，例如买卖价差估值调整和模型估值调
整，以确保计价的合理有效。本公司建立了内部控制机制来确保公允价值的合理性。如果采用模
型式估值，模型中的假设和技术都会事先经过独立专家小组的专门
验证。此外，模型中的价格、输入参数、假设和估值调整方法都会
经过核实和复查。其他的估值控制还包括复核和分析日常盈亏。本公司将所有进行公允价值估值的金融产品划分为三个层次：第一层次：公开市场价格这种估值技术运用相同资产和负债的活跃市场报价得出估值金额。
被归纳此层次的金融产品包括由上海黄金交易所和上海期货交易所
每日公布市场价格的贵金属。第二层次：估值输入参数可以通过市场观察得到的估值技术这种估值方式是通过标准模型确定，而输入的主要参数都能在市场
上直接观察。这种技术包括现金流折现分析、期权定价模型和一些
市场参与者普遍使用和接受的技术。被纳入这个层次的金融产品主
要为债券和存单投资，部分贷款，外汇远期 / 掉期，贵金属远期 /
掉期，质押式回购、利率互换、货币互换、商品期权、外汇期权及
结构性产品。第三层次：当主要参数不能直接观察得到时采用的估值技术这种估值技术运用合理市场假设的基础上获取主要不可观察参数。
目前本公司被纳入这个层次的金融产品包括主要参数不能直接观察
得到时采用的估值技术的部分贵金属期权和股票期权。以上各假设及方法乃为本公司资产及负债之公允价值提供一致之计
算准则。然而，由于其他机构或会使用不同之方法及假设，各金融
机构所披露之公允价值未必完全具有可比性。Valuation adjustments are an integral part of the fair value process 
that  requires  the  exercise  of  judgment  to  ensure  correct  fair  value 
representation. In making appropriate valuation adjustments, the Bank 
follows the methodologies that consider factors such as bid-offer spread 
valuation adjustment and model valuation adjustment.The Bank has established internal control procedures over the valuation 
process to provide assurance over the appropriateness of the fair values 
applied. If fair value is determined by valuation models, the assumptions and 
techniques within the models are independently validated by a specialist 
group. In addition, price and parameter inputs, assumptions and valuation 
adjustments are subject to veriﬁcation and review processes. Other valuation 
control includes review and analysis of daily proﬁt and loss.The Bank classiﬁes all the fair value instruments according to the following 
hierarchy:Level 1: Quoted market priceThis  valuation  technique  uses  recent  unadjusted  quoted  prices  for 
identical assets or liabilities in active markets. Financial instruments 
included in this category are precious metals whose market prices are 
published by Shanghai Gold Exchange and Shanghai Futures Exchange on 
daily basis.Level 2: Valuation technique using observable inputsThis valuation technique is used for ﬁnancial instruments where the prices 
are derived from standard valuation models, and significant inputs to 
these models are directly observable. The valuation techniques include 
the use of discounted cash ﬂow analysis, option pricing models and other 
valuation techniques widely used and accepted by market participants. 
The ﬁnancial instruments included in this category are mainly investments 
in bonds and negotiable certiﬁcates of deposit, loans, foreign exchange 
forward/swaps, precious metal forward/swaps, pledge-style repo, interest 
rate swaps, currency swaps, commodity options, foreign exchange options 
and structured products.Level 3: Valuation technique with signiﬁcant non-observable inputsThis valuation technique is used where at least one significant input is 
not observable and reliance is placed on reasonable assumptions made 
on market conditions. The ﬁnancial instruments included in this category 
are mainly precious metal options and equity options with significant 
unobservable components.All the assumptions and techniques mentioned above provide a consistent 
basis for the fair value measurement of the Bank's assets and liabilities. 
However, they may differ with other institutions' practice. Therefore, the 
fair values disclosed by different ﬁnancial institutions may not be entirely 
comparable.下表列示了以公允价值计量的金融工具的公允价值层次：The following table shows the fair value hierarchy of ﬁnancial instruments 
measured in fair value:以公允价值计量且其变动计入当期损
益的发放贷款和垫款Loans and advances to customers 
at fair value through proﬁt or loss活跃市场
报价
Quoted
market price
( 第一层次 )
(Level 1)1,285,539,961Precious metals公允价值计量使用的输入值Inputs in fair value measurement重要可观察
输入值
Signiﬁcant 
observable inputs
( 第二层次 )
(Level 2)重要不可观察
输入值
Signiﬁcant non-
observable inputs
( 第三层次 )
(Level 3)2021合计Total--1,285,539,9612,197,434,189Financial assets held-for-trading-2,197,434,189Derivative ﬁnancial assets639,486,1333,902,208,47949,1124,541,743,724Loans and advances to customers at fair 
value through other comprehensive 
incomeOther debt instrument at fair value through 
other comprehensive income---1,396,034,2362,561,239,526--1,396,034,2362,561,239,52610,436,771,937- 10,436,771,937Total ﬁnancial assets1,925,026,09420,493,688,36749,112 22,418,763,573Financial liabilities held-for-trading-6,899,748,675-6,899,748,675Derivative ﬁnancial liabilities428,784,4223,874,595,84466,3224,303,446,588Total ﬁnancial liabilities428,784,42210,774,344,51966,322 11,203,195,263--贵金属交易性金融资产衍生金融资产以公允价值计量且其变动计入其他综
合收益的发放贷款和垫款其他债权投资金融资产合计交易性金融负债衍生金融负债金融负债合计贵金属交易性金融资产衍生金融资产其他债权投资金融资产合计交易性金融负债衍生金融负债金融负债合计活跃市场
报价
Prices in
active markets
( 第一层次 )
(Level 1)1,564,487,585Precious metals公允价值计量使用的输入值Inputs in fair value measurement重要可观察
输入值
Signiﬁcant 
observable inputs
( 第二层次 )
(Level 2)重要不可观察
输入值
Signiﬁcant non-
observable inputs
( 第三层次 )
(Level 3)2020合计Total--1,564,487,5851,525,241,844Financial assets held-for-trading-1,525,241,844Derivative ﬁnancial assets734,800,86510,832,332,6102,866 11,567,136,341以公允价值计量且其变动计入当期损
益的发放贷款和垫款Loans and advances to customers 
at fair value through proﬁt or lossOther debt instrument at fair value through 
other comprehensive income--866,797,767-866,797,76711,029,276,744-                11,029,276,744Total ﬁnancial assets2,299,288,45024,253,648,9652,866 26,552,940,281Financial liabilities held-for-trading-3,644,232,118-3,644,232,118Derivative ﬁnancial liabilities622,432,21710,988,905,05526,353 11,611,363,625Total ﬁnancial liabilities622,432,21714,633,137,17326,353 15,255,595,743178179财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2021 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2021
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)本年度，本公司未发生以公允价值计量的第一层次和第二层次金融
资产和负债之间的转换。During the year, the Bank had no transfers between level 1 and level 2 
of the fair value hierarchy for ﬁnancial assets and liabilities which were 
recorded at fair value.管理层认为，于年末，本公司的其他金融资产和金融负债的公允价
值与相应的账面价值并无重大差异。第三层次的公允价值计量Management believes that the difference between the fair value and the 
carrying amount of other financial assets and financial liabilities is not 
material as at the balance sheet date.持续的第三层次公允价值计量的资产和负债的年初余额与年末余额
之间的调节信息如下：Level 3 fair value measurement衍生金融资产
Derivative ﬁnancial assets衍生金融负债
Derivative ﬁnancial liabilities2021合计
Total(26,353)(23,487)(39,969)(66,322)6,277(17,210)2020合计
Total年初余额Opening balance当期利得或损失总额
计入损益Movement through proﬁt or loss during the year年末余额Closing balance2,86646,24649,112衍生金融资产
Derivative ﬁnancial assets衍生金融负债
Derivative ﬁnancial liabilities年初余额Opening balance当期利得或损失总额
计入损益Movement through proﬁt or loss during the year年末余额Closing balance1,5851,2812,866(29,158)(27,573)2,8054,086(26,353)(23,487)Reconciliation of Level 3 ﬁnancial instruments is as below:其他金融工具的公允价值（年末非以公允价值计量的项目）第三层次金融工具的敏感性分析Sensitivity analysis of Level 3 ﬁnancial instruments本行采用第三层级估值的金融工具主要为参数不能直接观察得到时
采用的估值技术的部分贵金属期权和部分股票期权。本行第三层级
估值的金融工具均会与大华银行新加坡母行进行背对背对冲，风险
估值参数上升或下降一定比例后对净利润和其他综合收益的影响较
小。因此尽管第三层级的估值采用不可直接观察的参数，管理层的
判断和估计使估值具有不确定性，但是本行认为对该类参数判断和
估计的变化不会对本行的当年利润及所有者权益产生重大影响。本行的其他金融工具主要包括存放中央银行款项、存放同业款项、
拆出资金、买入返售金融资产以及以摊余成本法计量的发放贷款和
垫款。除发放贷款和垫款外，大部分金融资产均于一年之内到期，其账面
价值接近公允价值。发放贷款和垫款以摊余成本加应计利息扣除减值损失准备列账（附
注七 .7）。由于发放贷款和垫款的利率随中国人民银行规定的利率
实时调整以及减值贷款已扣除减值准备以反映其可回收金额，因此
发放贷款和垫款的公允价值与账面价值接近。本行以摊余成本计价的金融负债主要包括同业及其他金融机构存放
款项、拆入资金、吸收存款、卖出回购金融资产及已发行债务证券。
于资产负债表日，本行金融负债的账面价值接近公允价值。以上各种假设及方法为本行资产及负债公允价值的计算提供了统一
的基础。然而，由于其他机构可能会使用不同的方法及假设，因此，
各金融机构所披露的公允价值不一定具有可比性。The Bank's level 3 ﬁnancial instruments are mainly precious metal options and 
equity options with signiﬁcant unobservable components. All level 3 ﬁnancial 
instruments are hedged back-to-back with the parent company in Singapore, 
hence the ﬂuctuation of valuation inputs by a certain degree will have limited 
impact on net proﬁt and other comprehensive income. Therefore, although 
non-observable inputs are used in level 3 valuation models, and management's 
judgments and estimates on them lead to the valuation uncertainties, the 
Bank believes that changes in the judgments and estimates will not have 
signiﬁcant impact on the Bank's proﬁt and equity.Fair value of other ﬁnancial instruments (not measured at fair value)Other ﬁnancial assets mainly include deposits with the central bank, due 
from banks, placements with banks, reverse repurchase financial assets 
and loans and advances at amortised cost.Except for loans and advances to customers, most ﬁnancial assets are due 
within one year, therefore their carrying amounts are close to their fair 
values.Loans and advances to customers are presented at amortised cost plus 
accrued interest, and deducted by impairment losses (Note 7.7). Since the 
interest rates for loans and advances are adjusted timely upon PBOC's 
stipulated interest rates, and the net values of impaired loans reﬂect the 
recoverable amount by deducting the impairment losses, the carrying 
amounts of loans and advances are close to their fair values.The Bank's ﬁnancial liabilities that are measured at amortised cost mainly 
include due to banks and other financial institutions, placements from 
banks and other financial institutions, customer deposits, repurchase 
agreements and debt securities issued. As at the balance sheet date, the 
carrying amounts of the Bank's ﬁnancial liabilities are close to their fair 
values.The above assumptions and methodologies provide the same basis for fair 
value valuation of the Bank's assets and liabilities. However, that may differ 
with other ﬁnancial institutions' practice, hence the fair value disclosed by 
different ﬁnancial institutions may not be comparable.180181财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2021 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2021
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)十二、关联方关系及交易1. 关联方的认定标准12.    Related Party Transactions(1) Criteria of identifying related parties3. 于本年内与本公司有关联交易的其他关联方(3) The related parties which the Bank had transactions with during theyear are as follows于本年度，下列各方构成本公司的关联方：Details of the Bank's major related parties in 2021 are as follows:(1)  本公司的母公司；
(2)  本公司的子公司；
(3)  与本公司受同一母公司控制的其他企业；
(4)  对本公司实施共同控制的投资方 ;
(5)  对本公司施加重大影响的投资方；
(6)  本公司的合营企业；
(7)  本公司的联营企业；
(8)   本公司的主要投资者个人及与其关系密切的家庭成员；
(9)  本公司的关键管理人员或母公司关键管理人员，以及与其关系密切的家庭成员；(10)  本公司的主要投资者个人、关键管理人员或与其关系密切的家庭成员控制、共同控制的其他企业；(11)  本公司所属企业集团的其他成员单位（包括母公司和子公司）的合营企业或联营企业；(12)  对本公司实施共同控制的企业的合营企业或联营企业；
(13)  对本公司施加重大影响的企业的合营企业；
(14)  本公司设立的企业年金基金。Parent company of the Bank;(1) 
(2)  Subsidiary of the Bank;
(3)  Entities under control of the same parent company;
(4) 
(5) 
(6) 
(7)   Afﬁliated company of the Bank;
(8)   Main individual investors of the Bank or the close family members;
(9)  Key management personnel of the Bank or parent company, andInvestors exercise joint control over the Bank;
Investors exercise signiﬁcant inﬂuence over the Bank;
Joint ventures of the Bank;the close family members;(10)  Other companies controlled or jointly controlled by the Bank's 
major  investors,  key  management  personnel  or  close  family 
members;
Joint  ventures  or  affiliated  company  of  other  member  units 
(including parent companies and subsidiaries) of the enterprise 
group to which the bank belongs;
Joint ventures or afﬁliated company of enterprises which exercise 
joint control over the Bank;
Joint ventures of enterprises which exercise significant influence 
over the Bank;(12)(11)(13)2. 本公司母公司(14)  Annuity established by the Bank.(2) Parent company of the Bank名称Name业务性质Business Nature注册地Registered Address大华银行有限公司银行及金融服务United Overseas Bank LimitedBanking and Financial Service新加坡Singapore股本Share Capital新币 73.91 亿元SGD7,391 Million拥有权益比例Shareholding100%同受母公司控制的公司
Company under the common control of parent company名称Name业务性质Business Nature注册地注册资本Registered AddressRegistered Capital法定代表人Legal Representative大华银行 ( 马来西亚 ) 有限公司银行及金融服务马来西亚 吉隆坡马来西亚林吉特 20 亿元黄金松United Overseas Bank (Malaysia) Bhd.Banking and ﬁnancial serviceKuala Lumpur MalaysiaRM2 BillionWong Kim Choong大华银行 ( 泰国 ) 有限公司
United Overseas Bank (Thai) Public Company Limited银行及金融服务
Banking and ﬁnancial service泰国 曼谷
Bangkok Thailand泰铢 248.6 亿元
Baht24.86 Billion陈俊兴
Tan Choon Hin大华银行（印度尼西亚）有限公司
PT Bank UOB Indonesia银行及金融服务
Banking and ﬁnancial service印度尼西亚 雅加达
Jakarta Indonesia印度尼西亚卢比 27,966.61 亿元
IDR2,796.66 BillionArdhi Wibowo上海华新置业有限公司
UOB Property China Co., Ltd.房地产开发、经营、租赁和管理
Real estate development, operating, 
leasing and management中国 上海
Shanghai China人民币 17.99 亿元
RMB1.799 Billion优欧弼投资管理（上海）有限公司
UOB Venture Management (Shanghai) Co., Ltd投资管理，自有资产管理，投资咨询
Consulting and investment management中国 上海
Shanghai China美元 1,555 万元
USD15.55 Million大华资产管理有限公司
UOB Asset Management Ltd.资产管理
Investment management新加坡
Singapore新币 6,300 万元
SGD63 MillionLAI JING WEY谢建伟
Seah Kian Wee张文杰
Thio Boon KiatUOB Holdings (USA) Inc.盈钛（北京）科技有限公司AVATEC (BEIJING) Co., Ltd控股公司
Holding company美国 纽约
New York  USA美元 650 万元
USD6.5 MillionEriberto Resurreccion 
de Guzman技术开发、技术推广、技术转让、
技术咨询、技术服务
Technique services and consultancy; 
Application software development;
Other business consultancy.中国 北京新币 500 万元Beijing ChinaSGD5 Million闫陶陶Yan Tao Tao受母公司重大影响的公司
Company under the signiﬁcant inﬂuence of the parent company益诺丰企业管理咨询 ( 北京 ) 有限公司
InnoVen Enterprise Management Consulting 
(Beijing) Co., Ltd.企业管理咨询服务
Enterprise management and 
consultancy services中国 北京
Beijing China美元 150 万元
USD1.5 Million溢诺丰融资租赁有限公司InnoVen Financial Leasing Co., Ltd.融资租赁业务及兼营与主营业务相关
的商业保理业务
Financial leasing and related factoring 
business中国 天津美元 1,000 万元Tianjin ChinaUSD10 Million曹映雪
Cao Ying Xue曹映雪Cao Ying Xue上海毅峰股权投资管理有限公司
Shanghai InnoVen Equity Investment Managenent 
Private Limited股权投资管理和投资咨询
Equity investment management and 
investment consultancy中国 上海
Shanghai China美元 200 万元
USD2 Million曹映雪　
Cao Ying Xue182183财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2021 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2021
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)本公司的关键管理人员Key management personnel4. 本公司与关联方之主要交易(4)  Main transactions between the Bank and related parties关键管理人员，包括本公司的董事、监事及高级管理人员。Key management personnel include directors, supervisor and senior 
management.受本公司关键管理人员重大影响的公司
Company under the signiﬁcant inﬂuence of the Bank's key management名称Name华业 ( 厦门 ) 酒店有限公司Hua Ye Xiamen Hotel Limited业务性质Business Nature经营管理酒店Hotel management天津华业希望房地产开发有限公司
Tianjin UOL Xiwang Real Estate Co., Ltd.房地产开发
Real estate development庆隆（上海）投资管理有限公司
Kheng Leong (Shanghai) Investment 
Management Co., Ltd厦门虎标医药有限公司Xiamen Tiger Medicals Co., Ltd.虎豹企业有限公司Haw Par Corporation Limited商务信息、企业管理及投资管理咨询
Business information consulting; Corporate 
management consulting, Investment 
management consulting中成药生产；医疗信息咨询服务（不含药品
信息服务、疾病诊疗及其他需经许可审批的
项目）；第一类医疗器械批发。
Chinese patent medicine production;Medical 
information consulting services (excluding 
drug information services, disease diagnosis 
and treatment and other items subject to 
approval);Wholesale of medical devices of 
category I.(a)  制造、销售和贸易医疗保健产品 ;
(b)  提供与康乐有关的物品和服务 ;
(c)  投资控股
(a)   manufacturing, marketing and trading  
 
(b)   providing leisurerelated goods and services; 
(c)   investing in properties and securitieshealthcare products;注册地注册资本法定代表人Registered AddressRegistered CapitalLegal Representative中国 厦门Xiamen China中国 天津
Tianjin China中国 上海
Shanghai China美元 3,700 万元USD37 Million人民币 11.3 亿元
CNY1.13 Billion美元 650 万元
USD6.5 Million梁顺合Neo Soon Hup陈建守
Tan Kian Siew黄一超
Wee Ee Chao中国 厦门美元 820 万元吴美蓉Xiamen ChinaUSD8.2 MillionGoh Bee Leong新加坡新币 2.66228 亿元黄祖耀发放贷款和垫款Loans and advances to customers31-12-202131-12-2020余额
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)余额
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)上海锦骏置业有限公司Shanghai Jin Jun Realty Co., Ltd.350,558,7850.87223,145,783御道津旅（天津）发展有限公司 UIC Jin Travel (Tianjin) Co., Ltd.恒丰银行股份有限公司Evergrowing Bank Co., Ltd合计Total70,733,36235,899,900457,192,0470.180.0969,077,107-1.14292,222,8900.600.19-0.79存放及拆放款项Due from and placement with banks and 
other ﬁnancial institutions31-12-202131-12-2020余额
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)余额
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)大华银行有限公司United Overseas Bank Limited2,284,072,62218.75 1,408,350,022大华银行 ( 马来西亚 ) 有限公司United Overseas Bank (Malaysia) Bhd.大华银行 ( 印度尼西亚 ) 有限公司 PT Bank UOB Indonesia大华银行 ( 泰国 ) 有限公司United Overseas Bank (Thai) Public 
Company Limited2,334,840565,035206,301-0.020.001,951,4786,338--232,938195,607,821合计Total2,287,178,79818.77 1,606,148,59713.580.02--1.8915.49SingaporeSGD266.228 MillionWee Cho Yaw恒丰银行股份有限公司Evergrowing Bank Co., Ltd.新嘉置地（成都）发展有限公司
Singland (Chengdu) Development Co., Ltd.房地产开发、经营、租赁和管理
Real estate development, operating, leasing and 
management中国 成都
Chengdu China上海锦鹏置业有限公司
Shanghai Jin Peng Realty Co., Ltd.御道津旅（天津）发展有限公司UIC Jin Travel (Tianjin) Co., Ltd.房地产开发及经营
Real estate development and operation新型建筑材料生产、写字楼、公寓酒店、商
业设施的销售、租赁、管理
Manufacturing of new construction materials, 
sale, lease and management of ofﬁce buildings, 
apartment hotel, commercial facilities上海锦骏置业有限公司
Shanghai Jin Jun Realty Co., Ltd.房地产开发及经营
Real estate development and operation泛太平洋（上海）酒店管理有限公司
Pan Paciﬁc (Shanghai) Hotel Management Co., Ltd.恒丰银行股份有限公司Evergrowing Bank Co., Ltd.酒店管理、投资咨询、企业管理咨询
Hotel management, investment consulting and  
corporate management consulting商业银行 - 吸收存款发放贷款，办理结算，
票据业务等
Commercial Banks - Customer deposits, Loans 
and advances to customers, settlement and bill 
business, etc美元 2,400 万元
USD24 Million人民币 23 亿元
RMB2.3 Billion人民币 2.406 亿元中国 上海
Shanghai China中国 天津Tianjin ChinaRMB240.6 Million中国 上海
Shanghai China中国 上海
Shanghai China人民币 9.191 亿元
RMB919.1 Million美元 5 万元
USD50 ThousandChua Yu LeeLim Beng Teong余在杰Eu Zai JieLim Beng Teong梁顺合
Neo Soon Hup中国 山东人民币 1112.096 亿元陈颖Shandong ChinaRMB111.2096 BillionChen Ying平安基金管理有限公司
Ping An Fund Management Company Limited基金募集，基金销售，资产管理
Fund raising, fund sales, investment management中国 深圳
Shenzhen China人民币 13 亿元
RMB1.3 Billion罗春风
Luo Chun Feng184存入及拆入款项Due to and placements from banks and 
other ﬁnancial institutions31-12-202131-12-2020余额
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)余额
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)大华银行有限公司United Overseas Bank Limited10,098,378,08372.33 15,185,945,678平安基金管理有限公司Ping An Fund Management Company 
Limited大华银行（泰国）有限公司United Overseas Bank (Thai) Public 
Company Limited大华银行 ( 印度尼西亚 ) 有限公司 PT Bank UOB Indonesia20,558,02818,638,5181,388,3730.150.130.01-2,529,030-合计Total10,138,963,00272.62 15,188,474,70883.36-0.01-83.37185财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2021 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2021
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)吸收存款Customer deposits31-12-202131-12-2020应付款项 - 其他负债Payables - other liabilities31-12-202131-12-2020余额
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)余额
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)余额
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)余额
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)上海锦鹏置业有限公司Shanghai Jin Peng Realty Co., Ltd.2,380,884,7625.71  1,560,946,699优欧弼投资管理（上海）有限公司 UOB Venture Management (Shanghai)Co., Ltd.186,225,4300.45191,283,831上海锦骏置业有限公司Shanghai Jin Jun Realty Co., Ltd.162,993,1430.392,328新嘉置地（成都）发展有限公司Singland (Chengdu) Development Co., Ltd.154,877,8040.37150,148,572溢诺丰融资租赁有限公司InnoVen Financial Leasing Co., Ltd.57,946,7120.1454,735,493上海华新置业有限公司UOB Property China Co., Ltd.厦门虎标医药有限公司Xiamen Tiger Medicals Co., Ltd.御道津旅（天津）发展有限公司UIC Jin Travel (Tianjin) Co., Ltd.泛太平洋（上海）酒店管理有限公司 Pan Paciﬁc (Shanghai) Hotel ManagementCo., Ltd.54,386,17227,416,72425,716,41116,038,0800.13460,016,4000.0717,616,2880.067,351,0100.0414,895,858益诺丰企业管理咨询 ( 北京 ) 有限公司 InnoVen Enterprise ManagementConsulting (Beijing) Co., Ltd.10,336,2830.026,791,513华业（厦门）酒店有限公司Hua Ye Xiamen Hotel Limited庆隆（上海）投资管理有限公司Kheng Leong (Shanghai) Investment 
Management Co., Ltd.盈钛（北京）科技有限公司AVATEC (BEIJING) Co., Ltd天津华业希望房地产开发有限公司 Tianjin UOL Xiwang Real Estate Co., Ltd.虎豹企业有限公司Haw Par Corporation Limited7,101,8822,709,768402,93894,9798,0940.027,686,6400.014,724,871----42,5504,723,188关键管理人员Key Management Personnel49,357,1220.1216,557,796合计Total3,136,496,3047.53 2,497,523,0374.280.52-0.410.151.260.050.020.040.020.020.01--0.010.056.84应收款项 - 其他应收款Receivables - other receivables31-12-202131-12-2020余额
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)余额
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)上海华新置业有限公司UOB Property China Co., Ltd.大华银行有限公司United Overseas Bank Limited大华资产管理有限公司UOB Asset Management Ltd.大华银行 ( 马来西亚 ) 有限公司United Overseas Bank (Malaysia) Bhd.大华银行（印度尼西亚）有限公司 PT Bank UOB Indonesia12,883,20612,592,561375,0651,5436123.743.650.11--12,931,1002,845,307353,805--Total25,852,9877.5016,130,212合计1861.950.430.05--2.43大华银行有限公司United Overseas Bank Limited51,852,6538.2429,196,163大华银行 ( 泰国 ) 有限公司United Overseas Bank (Thai) Public优欧弼投资管理（上海）有限公司 UOB Venture Management (Shanghai) Co., Ltd----845,385188,760合计Total51,852,6538.2430,230,3085.010.140.035.18交易性金融负债Financial liabilities held-for-trading31-12-202131-12-2020大华银行有限公司United Overseas Bank Limited6,719,600,17497.39 3,273,239,91889.82余额
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)余额
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)利息收入Interest income20212020金额 
Amount占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)金额 
Amount占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)上海锦骏置业有限公司Shanghai Jin Jun Realty Co., Ltd.14,282,244御道津旅（天津）发展有限公司 UIC Jin Travel (Tianjin) Co., Ltd.大华银行有限公司United Overseas Bank Limited恒丰银行股份有限公司Evergrowing Bank Co., Ltd.合计Total3,563,1742,399,2341,538,09821,782,7500.680.170.110.071.038,101,3813,545,4462,650,7654,044,17918,341,7710.380.160.120.190.85187财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2021 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2021
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)利息支出Interest expense20212020手续费及佣金收入Fee and commission income20212020金额 
Amount占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)金额 
Amount占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)金额 
Amount占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)金额 
Amount占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)大华银行有限公司United Overseas Bank Limited150,477,37415.34234,436,23020.15大华银行有限公司United Overseas Bank Limited上海锦鹏置业有限公司Shanghai Jin Peng Realty Co., Ltd.35,631,9693.6322,692,418上海华新置业有限公司UOB Property China Co., Ltd.5,488,8160.568,928,232优欧弼投资管理（上海）有限公司 UOB Venture Management (Shanghai)Co., Ltd.3,315,7230.343,407,875新嘉置地（成都）发展有限公司Singland (Chengdu) Development Co., Ltd.1,769,3530.181,706,433平安基金管理有限公司Ping An Fund Management Company Limited545,354泛太平洋（上海）酒店管理有限公司 Pan Paciﬁc (Shanghai) Hotel ManagementCo., Ltd.华业（厦门）酒店有限公司Hua Ye Xiamen Hotel Limited溢诺丰融资租赁有限公司InnoVen Financial Leasing Co., Ltd.御道津旅（天津）发展有限公司UIC Jin Travel (Tianjin) Co., Ltd.益诺丰企业管理咨询 ( 北京 ) 有限公司 InnoVen Enterprise ManagementConsulting (Beijing) Co., Ltd.厦门虎标医药有限公司Xiamen Tiger Medicals Co., Ltd.大华银行（泰国）有限公司United Overseas Bank (Thai) Public 
Company Limited上海锦骏置业有限公司Shanghai Jin Jun Realty Co., Ltd.庆隆（上海）投资管理有限公司Kheng Leong (Shanghai) Investment 
Management Co., Ltd.虎豹企业有限公司Haw Par Corporation Limited大华银行（印度尼西亚）有限公司 PT Bank UOB Indonesia盈钛（北京）科技有限公司AVATEC (BEIJING) Co., Ltd天津华业希望房地产开发有限公司 Tianjin UOL Xiwang Real Estate Co., Ltd.166,951121,237101,26799,79068,29425,06418,6134,9564,3061,9972562061370.060.020.010.010.01-165,862140,053407,416108,8440.0163,900--------21,4947,5941661,85829,159--269关键管理人员Key Management Personnel292,8200.03323,591合计Total198,134,48320.20272,501,2441.950.770.290.15-0.010.010.040.010.01---0.01----0.0323.43188大华资产管理有限公司UOB Asset Management Ltd.上海锦骏置业有限公司Shanghai Jin Jun Realty Co., Ltd.大华银行（泰国）有限公司United Overseas Bank (Thai) Public 
Company Limited厦门虎标医药有限公司Xiamen Tiger Medicals Co., Ltd.御道津旅（天津）发展有限公司UIC Jin Travel (Tianjin) Co., Ltd.上海华新置业有限公司UOB Property China Co., Ltd.天津华业希望房地产开发有限公司 Tianjin UOL Xiwang Real Estate Co., Ltd.溢诺丰融资租赁有限公司InnoVen Financial Leasing Co., Ltd.虎豹企业有限公司Haw Par Corporation Limited盈钛（北京）科技有限公司AVATEC (BEIJING) Co., Ltd.大华银行（印度尼西亚）有限公司 PT Bank UOB Indonesia平安基金管理有限公司Ping An Fund Management Company 
Limited益诺丰企业管理咨询 ( 北京 ) 有限公司 InnoVen Enterprise ManagementConsulting (Beijing) Co., Ltd.泛太平洋（上海）酒店管理有限公司 Pan Paciﬁc (Shanghai) Hotel ManagementCo., Ltd.优欧弼投资管理（上海）有限公司 UOB Venture Management (Shanghai)Co., Ltd华业（厦门）酒店有限公司Hua Ye Xiamen Hotel Limited新嘉置地（成都）发展有限公司Singland (Chengdu) Development Co., Ltd.大华银行 ( 马来西亚 ) 有限公司United Overseas Bank (Malaysia) Bhd.恒丰银行股份有限公司Evergrowing Bank Co., Ltd.庆隆（上海）投资管理有限公司Kheng Leong (Shanghai) Investment 
Management Co., Ltd19,506,3536,492,07775,53232,95316,0599,7836,8424,7164,0661,2761,2681,0201,01991586435632566---9.203.065,940,5017,148,0140.041,030,8220.020.01----------------24,14214,113111,7141,4732,82138,108----845728-1,12538(22,262)5,4832,000合计Total26,155,49012.3314,299,6653.073.700.530.010.010.06--0.02---------(0.01)--7.39189财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2021 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2021
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)手续费及佣金支出Fee and commission expense20212020保函Letter of guarantee金额 
Amount占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)金额 
Amount占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)大华银行有限公司United Overseas Bank Limited1,302,8872.7171,549大华银行（印度尼西亚）有限公司 PT Bank UOB Indonesia大华银行 ( 马来西亚 ) 有限公司United Overseas Bank (Malaysia) Bhd.大华银行 ( 泰国 ) 有限公司United Overseas Bank (Thai) Public Company 
Limited84111142---1,688,92825-合计Total1,303,8812.711,760,502投资收益Investment income20210.143.34--3.482020金额 
Amount占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)金额
Amount占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)大华银行有限公司United Overseas Bank Limited10,549,77525.639,133,642业务及管理费General and administrative expenses20215.062020信息技术支持费IT support- 大华银行有限公司- United Overseas Bank Limited62,715,1175.9860,819,151房屋租金及服务费Rental and service fee- 上海华新置业有限公司- UOB Property China Co., Ltd.- 华业（厦门）酒店有限公司- Hua Ye Xiamen Hotel Limited- 大华银行有限公司- United Overseas Bank Limited52,459,888296,133-5.000.03-54,300,776296,13378,491合计Total115,471,13811.01115,494,551开发软件Software development20215.865.230.030.0111.132020大华银行有限公司United Overseas Bank Limited10,726,08652.581,733,18477.42金额 
Amount占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)金额 
Amount占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)不可撤消的贷款承诺Irrevocable loan commitments31-12-202131-12-2020衍生金融负债Derivative ﬁnancial liabilities余额
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)余额
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)上海锦骏置业有限公司Shanghai Jin Jun Realty Co., Ltd.--52,207,2092.28大华银行有限公司United Overseas Bank Ltd.190金额 
Amount占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)金额 
Amount占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)恒丰银行股份有限公司Evergrowing Bank Co., Ltd.--150,035,3046.6031-12-202131-12-2020余额
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)余额
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)大华银行有限公司United Overseas Bank Ltd.14,918,7630.7761,841,5785.74使用权资产Right-of-use assets31-12-202131-12-2020余额
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)余额
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)上海华新置业有限公司
- 房屋租赁UOB Property China Co., Ltd
-Rent38,014,68850.7776,029,37462.28租赁负债Lease liabilities31-12-202131-12-2020余额
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)余额
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)上海华新置业有限公司
- 房屋租赁UOB Property China Co., Ltd
-Rent36,055,65049.2577,394,28065.35买入返售Reverse repurchase ﬁnancial assets31-12-202131-12-2020余额
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)余额
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)衍生金融工具合约Derivatives31-12-202131-12-2020余额
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)余额
Balance占同类交易余额比例
Contribution (%)大华银行有限公司United Overseas Bank Ltd.18,269,283,3583.57 42,488,123,777大华银行 ( 印度尼西亚 ) 有限公司 PT Bank UOB Indonesia98,581--合计Total18,269,381,9393.57 42,488,123,777衍生金融资产Derivative ﬁnancial assets大华银行有限公司United Overseas Bank Ltd.大华银行 ( 印度尼西亚 ) 有限公司 PT Bank UOB Indonesia合计Total31-12-2021余额
Balance273,226,747612273,227,35931-12-2021余额
Balance502,736,9186.34-6.3431-12-2020余额
Balance287,457,882-287,457,88231-12-2020余额
Balance445,084,643191财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2021 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2021
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)本公司与上述关联方进行的交易根据正常的商业交易条件进行，以一
般交易价格为定价基础，并按正常业务程序进行。除上述交易外，本公司支付给关键管理人员薪金福利如下：The Bank's transactions with the above-mentioned related parties are 
conducted in accordance with normal commercial transaction conditions, 
based on general transaction prices, and in accordance with normal business 
procedures.十三、租赁1. 作为承租人13. Lease(1) As lesseeKey management personnel's salaries and beneﬁts are as follows:雇员薪金及其他短期福利Employee salaries and other short-term 
incentives202192,895,534202097,088,423与本公司年金计划的交易情况如下：Transactions between the Bank and the annuity are as follows:本公司承租的租赁资产包括经营过程中使用的房屋及建筑物和运输
工具，房屋及建筑物的租赁期通常为 2-5 年，运输工具的租赁期通
常为 3-4 年。少数租赁合同包含续租选择权、终止选择权。The leased assets of the Bank include the buildings and vehicles used 
during daily operation. The lease term for buildings is usually 2-5 years, 
and the lease term for vehicles is usually 3-4 years. A few lease contracts 
have an option to extend the lease or an option to terminate the lease.与租赁相关的现金流出Cash outﬂow related to lease202167,160,791202081,911,894本公司与本年设立的企业年金基金除正常的供款业务外，本年未发
生其他关联交易。No transactions other than normal contribution to the annuity were 
conducted between the Bank and the annuity established by the Bank.未纳入租赁负债计量的未来潜在现金流出Potential cash outﬂow that not accounts for lease liabilities本公司未纳入租赁负债计量的未来潜在现金流出主要来源于可变租
赁付款额，租赁合同中的续租选择权与终止选择权，租赁担保余值，
已承诺但尚未开始的租赁等风险敞口。Potential cash outﬂow that not accounts for lease liabilities mainly arises 
from risk exposures such as variable lease payable, option to extend 
the lease, option to terminate the lease, guaranteed residual value, and 
committed but not commenced leases.续租选择权与终止租赁选择权2021 年，本公司无因续租选择权或终止选择权的评估结果或实际行
使情况发生变化而导致租赁期变化。已承诺但尚未开始的租赁Option to extend the lease, option to terminate the leaseThere  is  no  change  on  lease  terms  arose  from  the  change  on  the 
assessment of option to extend the lease, option to terminate the lease 
or actual option exercise situation in 2021.本公司本年已承诺但尚未开始的租赁预计未来年度现金流出的情况
如下 :Committed but not commenced leasesThe expected cash outﬂows of committed but not commenced leases in 
the future are as below:1 年以内（含 1 年）Within 1 year (include 1 year)1 年至 2 年（含 2 年）1-2 years (include 2 years)2021151,80059,500211,30020202,854,5111,430,9464,285,457193192财务报表附注
Notes to Financial Statements2021 年度 For the year ended 31 December 2021
（除特别注明外，金额单位均为人民币元）
(Unless otherwise stated, expressed in RMB Yuan)租赁费用补充信息Additional information on lease expense本公司对短期租赁和低价值资产租赁进行简化处理，未确认使用权
资产和租赁负债，短期租赁、低价值资产当期计入费用的情况如下：The bank uses the simpliﬁed approach to account for short-term leases 
and leases of low-value assets which are not recognised as the right-of-
use assets and lease liabilities. Profit or loss recognises on short-term 
leases and leases of low-value assets is as below:短期租赁费用Expenses for short-term leases低价值租赁费用（短期租赁除外）Expenses for leases of low-value assets 
(other than short-term leases)20216,818,088-6,818,08820205,118,900-5,118,900其他租赁信息Other information on lease使用权资产，参见附注四、15 和附注七、10；租赁负债的利息费用，
参见附注七、31；对短期租赁和低价值资产租赁的简化处理，参见附
注四、15；租赁负债，参见附注四、15 和附注七、23。Please refer to Note 4.15 and Note 7.10 for right-of-use assets; refer to 
Note 7.31 for interest expense of lease liabilities; refer to Note 4.15 for 
simpliﬁed approach to account for short-term leases and leases of low-
value assets ; refer to Note 4.15 and Note 7.23 for lease liabilities.十四、资产负债表日后事项14. Post Balance Sheet Events根 据 本 公 司 2021 年 6 月 4 日 召 开 的 2021 年 第 二 次 董 事 会 决 议 以
及 2021 年 12 月 28 日中国银行保险监督管理委员会上海监管局的
沪银保监复【2021】935 号《上海银保监局关于大华银行（中国）
有限公司增加注册资本的批复》，本公司申请增加注册资本人民
币 2,000,000,000.00 元，由大华银行有限公司于批复签发之日起 30
日内全额缴足，变更后的注册资本为人民币 7,500,000,000.00 元。
截至 2022 年 1 月 18 日止，本公司已收到投资方缴纳的新增注册资
本（实收资本）合计人民币贰拾亿元。投资方以货币出资人民币
2,000,000,000.00 元。上述实收资本已由安永华明会计师事务所（特
殊普通合伙）上海分所审验，并于 2022 年 1 月 24 日出具了安永华明
(2022) 验字第 60658622_B01 号验资报告。According to the Board resolution on 4 June 2021 and Hu Yin Bao Jian 
Fu  [2021] No 935 The Approval on the Increase of Registered Capital of 
United Overseas Bank (China) Limited issued by CBIRC Shanghai Bureau on 
28 December 2021, the registered capital of the Bank would increase by 
RMB2 billion to RMB7.5 billion, which should be completed within 30 days 
upon receiving the regulator's approval. As of 18 January 2022, the Bank 
received RMB2 billion capital injection from the parent company, which 
was veriﬁed by Ernst & Young Hua Ming LLP Shanghai Branch with Ernst & 
Young Hua Ming (2022) Yan Zi No 60658622_B01 capital veriﬁcation report 
issued on 24 January 2022.15. Comparative Amounts十五、比较数据若干比较数据乃经过重新编排，以符合本年度之列报要求。Certain comparative amounts have been adjusted to conform with the 
current year's presentation.十六、财务报表之批准16. Approval of the Financial Statements本财务报表业经本公司董事会于 2022 年 3 月 25 日决议批准。The  financial  statements  were  approved  for  issue  by  the  Board  of 
Directors on 25 March 2022.194195196A000523
A000523